  "Still the tighest
bunch around,
they offer a
streamlined
variation on
what the Fall
must have
meant when
they screeched
'Totally Wired!'
so many years
ago. ...Bring on
that album!"
• Exclaim
cs/cd
I
Z
NUMB makes
soundtracks for
the horror
movies in your
head."
• Rockpool
"...compressed
and corrugated,
assimilated to a
grainy eroded
rock."
• Melody Maker
cs/cd
Engrenages
Banlieue
Rouge's third
album. With
Engrenages,
they have
incorporated
rockier strains to
their
franco-punk
roots.
cs/cd
Songs About
Chris ep.
Eric's Trip's best
piece so far.
Includes 'Sloan
Song' & 'Listen'.
7"/cd single
O
Bubble &
Scrape
"Lou Barlow's
songwriting
sticks in your
gullet like raw
cookie dough,
and if he ever
overcomes his
fascination with
the sound of his
own nonsense,
his Sebadoh
could be the
greatest band
on the planet."
• Spin
cs/cd
FJLUF
/WIW.IE/
Blonder Tongue
Audio Baton
Visions of
malevolent,
clashing guitar-
embroiled in
hypnotic rhythms,
cs/cd
HEATING UP YOUR SPRING!
GWAR   HelhOl (Cargo/MCA)
LEMONHEADS Lick(Cargo/wcA)
REVEREND HORTON HEAT
Th© FuU Custom Gospel Sounds of
the Reverend Horton Heat
The Reverend is presently
touring with Frank Black.
GIANT SAND
Centre of the Un'rverse
Following Ramp and Swerve.
this indie legend continues.
OBUVEON Nemesis
SMUGGLERS In the Hall of Fame...
BUM Wanna Smash Sensation!
Numb/Sebadoh/Big Drill Car
distributed by CARGO/MCA
WW cut
Toured -
A Uve Album
Recorded on their
1991 Batch World Tour
at the infamous
CBGB's in New York.
cs/cd DiScORDER
MAY 1993    ISSUE #124
"I've got a truckload of Jesus tapes.'
— Mikey Jiggle's trucker friends.
REGULARS
VANCOUVER SPECIAL..
MOFO'S PSYCHOSONIC PIX..,
comics
BLOODY THE BLOODHOUND
by Michael Aushenker	
EVERYTHINGS DUCKY
by Blaine Thurier	
THE BLANK GENERATION
by Gary Wildeman !
IRREGULARS
c    SUPERCHUNK
....d    The Question Is How
9    COME
Boston'sBrandNewSfrv.	
..25    THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS
Don't Be Too Quick To Judge. 13
Sorry, I Can't Think Up Another
..28    Snappy Refrain 14
QUICKSAND
Slip Into The Crow
..31    WELCOME TO MY SUMMIT
Canada's Only Shot At Media Representation?. 18
POOH STICKS
..33    What's New, Pussycats?. 21
.      UNDRAME/IOS
..34    Another Uliana Installment. 16
COVERS
OFFICE USE ONLY
and used
j ana used _«______* mtkW
as of May 15
Taboo Tribal Wear
piercings by Mike Bear Walsh
trained by Fakir Musafar
ds IpS and cassettes
live!
May 16
WAVAW benefit
JHeavens to Betsy
& Tattletaie
$^\JMay23
>W'g Torture
K.A Apartment 36
We buy and trade your cds. Thanks to Stovebolt, Thumbscrew, Engine Kid, Windwalker, and Cub
eMpTy Records Music West Showcase
CRACKERBASH*THE MEICES
ZIPGUN*KILL SYBIL*SINISTER SIX*SICK0
SAT MAY 8th • IHE ANZA CLUB
3  WEST  8th  Ave  (@   Ontario)
Send S.A.S.E. for complete Catalog. Distributed by Mordam LP & CS $9
ppd/ CD $11 ppd / 7 inch $ 4.50 ppd POSTER
CHILDREN
plus
L _ guests AJ
SATURDAY, MAY 151
TOWN PUMP 10 pm
! TUESDAY, MAY 18
PLAZA OF NATIONS 8pm
with
DARDEN SMITH
Thurs,
Ma/20
8pm
Vancouver East
Cultural Centre
FOR
RESERVATIONS
254-9578
fIREHOSE
with RUN WESTY RUN
! plus guests
(THURSDAY
y MAY27iopm
TOWN PUMP
2l"_W THEIR OWN WORDS"
a bunch of songwriters sittin'around singing
JOHNNY       DAVID LISA FREEDY      MICHAEL
CLEGG     BAERWALD   GERMANO   JOHNSTON   BARABAS
SATURDAY. MAY29 • 8pm ppr
a_ui=
Tuetday,
fluyutt 17
Pacific Coli- eum
Concert Bouil
7 pm
r EINSTURZENDE NEUBAUTEN <
mmsMBm
uding Zulu Records, or charge by phone 280-4444.
cords. Tickets for FLUID & FIREHOSE available at Tr Normally, this little intro/blurb/
preface to the "Airhead" column is written by the Discorder
editor or publisher. Unfortunately, I have been asked to
write it this month. I say unfortunately becai
tethispiec
is are gen
t I would nee
e.andallthos
erally unplea:
CiTR recently hosted Chapter II! of an annual event that
we like to call DJ Sound War.
Overall, things went very well
and, as far as I know, all of
those who attended the two-day
event had a great time. However, someone decided that they
needed  the   cartridges   and
weights from  our turntables
more  than  we  did and stole
them. Someone also stole a number ofthe items that we had for
,   (free) door-prizes including a
package of 10 CDs, a package
of 10 cassettes, 3 t-shirts, and a
hat.  Someone also stole our
n's—Earl  the  Pearl—bag
t contained 2 CDs, keys, a
I   pager, business cards, IDanda
small amount of cash. We don 't
really care too much about the
door prizes, heck we were go-
g to give them away anyhow,
it Earl would really like to get
s stuff back as would CiTR.
So if anyone knows anything
nit these thefts please call
atCiTR, 822-3017.
rhe second piece of bad news
ithat I have to pass on is that
CiTR was robbed on Sunday,
April 25. Two Technics SL-1800
MARK2 turntables (serial
#DA9$10B007 and#DA9810Bl 17)
were removed from the station
sometime in the evening . We
have some leads and are currently looking for anyone who
tion. We really need your support in tracking down these
turntables as the replacement
cost is high and CiTR operates
on a very tight budget...meaning
we cannot afford to replace this
equipment. 1 must say that this
j theft disturbs me greatly. We
here to provide a free ser-
B,   both to the people who
j listen and to the people who
'olunteer their on-air program
ming. If we suffer a loss everyone suffers. These thefts and
the theft of a CD player that
occureda month ago may mean
that CiTR will have to change
its policy of allowing new
members in the station after
business hours. We may have
to spend money that would
have been spent on better
equipment on a better security
system instead. So ifyou have
any information, no matter
how insignificant it may seem,
about any of these thefts
please, please call me at CiTR
(822-3017) or call the RCMP
at 224-1322. We don't need to
know who you are or how you
know but we do need you help.
And to the people who took
these items, I hope that it was
worth it. I realize you have no
intention of giving them back.
But perhaps knowing that you
have fucked the 330 people
who use those turntables and
caused those same people to
curse you each and every time
they enter the station will be
enough to cause you just a
slight twinge of remorse. If not,
FUCK YOU.
Linda Scholten,
CiTR Station Manager
And when we catch you we're
going to drag you through the
mud (and the courts) like the
fucking swine you are.
JOIN THE CLUB
Attention All Thieves!!
If you, or anyone you know, has
any idea where our 120 minute-8
miiumeter video cassette labelled
"Tour 92" is, please contact us at
589-0714. NO QUESTIONS
ASKED!! We just want it back.
The video cassette was with a
Sony Hi8 Video Camera inside a
metal case covered with sk8 &
music suckers. This was stolen from
my home in Whalley (SURREY!)
along with two speakers and some
jewelry on Friday March 26 at around
8 PM. You came in thru the bathroom
window.
I hate to bitch, but you ripped off a
starving artist with no insurance. I
work shitty jobs for low pay to buy
the tools I need to create. I suppose
everything you stole can be replaced
eventually, but that videocassette is
the ONLY record we have of our tour
across Kanada last year. Please have
the heart to return it to us undamaged.
DOGEATDOG
Box 4642 Main PO
Vancouver, BC
V6B4A1
MILD-MANNERED BY
NIGHT...CURSING
MOTHERFUCKER BY DAY
Dear Airhead
I have a bone to pick with the people
at CiTR. Why the hell would your
station manager protest the movement of Coast 1040 radio to the FM
band? I hke and listen to CiTR all the
time but sometimes I just can' t handle
a few of the blubbering idiots on air.
I know Coast is just too commercial
for its own good but christ sometimes
you need a break, and like it or not,
AM or FM, some of us will frequently flip back and fourth between
stations whether we admit it or not.
After all, what does a non profit station like yourselves have to lose any
way? I think that the CiTR and Coast
together provide the diversity that
this city needs right now, and God
knows we have some musical wounds
to lick in this town. So as far as I'm
concerned this puts you in the trash
can with the rest of those dumpy
stations that did the same. Shame on
Loyal hstener despite your selfish
Julie Barkhard
P.S. Now that Coast 1040 is up for
sale why doesn't Good Boy Productions buy it up and start the Cruel
Elephant station. Why not, they've
had shows everywhere else in town.
Ya know, I wish that one day
people will be intelligent enough
to check the facts before they
rant on about an issue that they
know nothing about. Now this is
^
l±ff
C/O 6138 SUB blvd.
Vancouver B.C.
V6T 1Z1
AIRHEAD
not only directed to you, Julie,
but to all those other folks who
have called to yell at me about
how terrible CiTR is for not
supporting Coast Radio in their
FM endeavor. WHY DON'T
YOU READ THE FUCKING INTERVENTION!?!
The first thing you would
discover upon reading is that
CiTR intervened against Coast
c do n
I agrt
the procedure takt
CRTC in their handling of
Coast's application. The normal procedure followed in the
allocation of an FM application calls for the consideration
of all other qualified applicants for the allocation. The CRTC
then allocates that available
channel to the applicant pro-
complimentary service to the
market, in this case the Vancouver lislenership. This was
NOT the case when Coast applied for the 95.3 FM frequency.
David Marsden and Western
World applied for lhat channel,
applications were called for,
and the CRTC granted Z95.3
FM the licence. Since there are
only two FM allotments left in
the Vancouver market, CiTR be
lieves that all parties interested
in receiving an FM frequency
should have the opportunity to
apply whether they are a CFOX
clone, an "alternative" rock
station or an ethnic community
station. This does not mean that
CiTR believes Coast would not
be the best application, merely
that CiTR believes everyone
should have a chance to be considered for one of the last two
available fre
The
I   thin
would discover upon reading
the intervention is that CiTR
makes no mention whatsoever
of any other objection. So, for
all those people who think that
CiTR is scared of Coast, shame
on you! Maybe next time you
will show a little more faith in
us. And to all those Coast DJs
who are slagging CiTR on-air,
thanks for the publicity!
Linda Scholten,
CiTR Station Manager.
"Note: All "Airhead" letters
are published as they are
received. So, if the grammar is bad and they read
like a piece of shit it's the
fault of the writer, not ours.
PAULO VIPflCTDISCSCOMIbr-a
3WestfourthAvB. 20031/ltsr
>RNER:4th&M APLE ATCORNO_5 '■. - „
1 ■ ■ ■ M W ^TIW ^5^£&£^Q_5 £ !£-■ U"
^(^PArm^#»^^ls!SC()ft
■thAve. 2D03WestFn<»^^.stFourtliAvE. 200!
MAPLE ATCORNER:4«fof*A_. 2. CORNER:4th&MAPLE ATCOI
-Om::kooiv,!!
IIWn-DISCSCOMPACTDISCSCOMPACTDI
IWestFourthAve. 2DD3WestFourthAve. 2D03WestFour
RNER:4th&MAPLE ATCORNER:4th&MAPUE ATCORNER:4th&f
)UVER.B.C   739-9511 VANCOUVER.B.C   739-9511VANCOUVER.B.CJ 7
>-95IIVANCOUVER.B.C   739-95IIVANCC
: • i.
mmmmmw
May 1   EDDIE BURKS
May2-3  A.C. REED
May 4-8   LLYOD JONES STRUGGLE
May 10-12   THE BEL-AIRS
May 13-15 THE DEMONS du jour
May 17  OLIVER AND THE ELEMENTS
May 18-19 THE VAQUEROS
May20-22 JIM BYRNES
May24 OLIVER AND THE ELEMENTS
May25-29 INCOGNITO
DOHimSMKLAM'SMS:
SATURDAY 3-8 PM / SUNDAY BLUES MARATHON JAM 3PM-MIDNIGHT
JACK LA VIN'S JAMS ARE SPONSORED BY MOTHERS MUSIC AND THE DRUM SHOP
OPEN EACH NIGHT FROM 9:30 PM TO 1:30 AM OPEN WEEKDAYS FROM 11:30 AM
$Atftfcto^Ahf
ON SALE UNTIL JUNE 10 AT 568 SEYMOUR ST. (DOWNTOWN) ONLY. FOUR FLOORS OF FUN!
%& 2>IOU8 "We are at a moment of power," Sergei announced, unfurling the papers rather dramatically. He
handed a legal-sized document to each of his three listeners: "The top chart shows the net flow
of U.S. dollars into Swiss accounts for a two year period ending October thirty-first, this year.
The bottom chart lists our specific U.S holdings as of yesterday and the agents controlling them,"
he paused to let the others scan over the information. The only other person in the room with them
was Danko.
Danko was a huge man, almost monstrous. He stood silently against the wall holding a
polished AK-47 and listened through one earphone to periodic updates from his security team.
He wore a mask: a black nylon hood which concealed his face completely. The others had never
seen the face underneath the mask, but none had to...Danko's presence was unmistakable.
When the three who were seated looked up from their papers, Sergei spoke,"Gendemen,
the opportunity at present is golden. We have all the security we need, and our saboteurs have
been on American soil for over three years." He glanced at each one of them with penetrating
eyes, "It is time to put our machine into motion.. .time for the downfall of the American empire!"
He punctuated his statement by hammering a fist on the table.
"What do you recommend as our first line of action?" Korsakov, the man to Sergei's left,
asked with controlled excitement.
"Ah," their leader popped open the latches of his black briefcase,"our first move will be a
brilliant one," his voice was anxious, "and it will happen tonight." As he finished his statement
his statement, his gaze lifted to Danko at the far side of the room. Danko had his right hand over
his ear, as if listening more intendy to his security team. There was a visible tension in his stance.
"Danko?" Sergei was concerned.
"Sir," Danko's booming voice had a polite, professional tone, "we may have a security
alert." At that, Sergei and the other three reached under the table and produced firearms. Danko
strode rapidly to the large double wooden door and slipped out All eyes were on Sergei.
"What could have happenned?"
Sergei gripped a 9mm Walther, "I trust Danko to handle it."
Just then, from somewhere in the building—nine floors below, or perhaps j ust down the hall
—came an echo, "Yuk yuk yuk yuk yuk..." The air in the room grew thick with tension; all four
men cocked their guns, Sergei was in a state of grim disbelief, "It can't be. I thought I heard..."
The double doors exploded inward, shattering the lock and showering the carpet with wood
splinters. The intruder stood in the open doorway; everyone recognized him, but none wanted
to believe that he was really there, Sergei's suspicion from a moment ago was confirmed,
"Popeye!"
The Sailor Man was an imposing figure. Deadly tension rippled in his inhumanly large
forearms: arms that some believed were the product of years of secret training while others
believed they were the results of military biomechanics — government experiments. Origins
aside, everyone knew enough to stay away from Popeye's arms.
He took in the four of them unblinkingly. It was a few seconds before he saw any of them
start breathing again. He shifted the pipe in his mouth, took in a slow deliberate breath and spoke,
"I has had it wit da lot'o'yas." This was it, the Sailer Man would waste no more time with words.
Sergei knew they had to kill him, or be killed. All guns opened fire. But the tatooed Sea Devil
was already half-way across the room, rolling under the hail of bullets. He reached Korsakov
before a third shot was fired from Korsakov's semi-automatic pistol. Popeye sprung up to the
inside of Korsakov's gun arm and, using advanced ninpo-taijutsu techniques, dislocated the
shoulder and crippled the gun hand. Four bullets meant for Popeye were stopped by Korsakov's
body before the sailor dropped and rolled under the table. A second man went down with a cry
of pain as his knees were each blown apart and a third bullet ploughed through his chest. Popeye
had Korsakov's gun.
With two down, the third was easy: one quickly aimed shot to the head finished him.
Popeye now had only Sergei to deal with...and Sergei was out of bullets.
Sergei was frozen with terror, for he knew that the Sailor Man would not shoot an unarmed
opponent if he did not have to; he would kill them with his bare hands. Sergei watched silendy
as Popeye approached, eyes squinted and pipe clenched tighdy in his seaman's teeth. "My God,"
thought Sergei, "those bloodshot eyes...he's on Spinach!" No sooner had realization hit Sergei
when Popeye spoke again, "I've had all I can stand, and I can't stands no more." Two anchor
tattoes streaked upward — there was a sharp crack as Sergei's neck broke. But the threat to
Popeye's life was not ended; he ducked and rolled as a spray of bullets tore through the air where
his chest had been. Danko had returned.
Still in motion from his evasive roll, Popeye's right arm shot out like a whip and sent a
handful of razor-sharp shuriken at his agressor. Only one made contact with Danko's arm, but
the projectiles were unexpected enough to make him drop the rifle. Popeye was almost on top
of him. The lightning-fast seaman lashed out at Danko's head. Danko countered with equal speed
and Popeye's hand only caught the black hood concealing his opponent's identity. The hood
came off and Popeye confirmed what his instincts had told him already: he was fighting with
Bluto.
Both combatants paused momentarily, glaring at each other. Hateful recongnition burned
in Popeye's eyes as he remembered what Bluto had done to Wimpy. Then Popeye was swept by
memories he had pushed aside for years — memories of Olive. His anger consumed him. He
would make Bluto pay. Both men exploded at once, each driving fierce hand strikes at the other
and in turn blocking the opponent. The flurry of movement ended with the two fighters jumping
away from each other. They stared each other down once more, this time breathing quite heavily.
Bluto spoke, "It would seem, Popeye, that you cannot beat me. You were foolish to stay with
Sensei for so long. He could not teach you the things that I have learned!"
He's partly right, thought Popeye, I can't beat him. But it's because of the damn Spinach!
It's slowing my reflexes.
Just then the sound of running footsteps came from the hallway, more of Bluto's men were
coming. Popeye knew he must escape somehow. One of Popeye's tattoes became a blur as he
threw down a combination flash and smoke bomb, bluto and the newly arrived men were blinded
for an instant and the Sea Devil disappeared in the smoke.
Bluto shouted after him, "We'llmeetagain! Count on it!"On the streets below, Popeye knew
he would not be followed: there was too much of amess for Bluto's men to clean up. But Popeye
knew his enemy had spoken the truth; they would meet again.
However, next time, thought Popeye, I'll kill you. I'll kill you for Olive Oil...
SUCKS O _f
o
._._§ es pzm
+-i
o
a
v_*
-O,
pcj;
$ Hang on! In this month's installment of
subtext: beaucoup books by Canadian authors,
Crad Kilodney news, a very naughty parody
of the Family Circus comic, Wild Palms and
a peek at Concrete, my latest cartoon heartthrob. Happy reading.
Michael Turner, Reading
Railroad organizer, has just released
his second book. Hard Core Logo
(Arsenal Pulp Press, $13.95)—the
saga of a punk-rock band hitting the
road one more time. The band, led
by Joe Mulgrew (aka Joe Dick), has
been coaxed out of retrrement for a
Green World Coalition benefit. The
one-night all-acoustic gig turns into
a full fledged tour with the bewildered band rediscovering the
road...and why they split in the first
place.
As with Company Town,
Turner's first book (a fictional account of Michael's adventures in a
secluded fishing area), the story is
lold in short prose pieces. This time
pictures and song lyrics are included, giving the book a scrapbook teel.
The band members are rather loutish
fellas who go on auto-pilot whilst
touring. Is the beer backstage? Tbe food? 0-
The best passages in the book don't
involve the band but, rather, an old rawk pal
of theirs, Bucky Haight, who tells a few stories. The members of Hard Core Logo are,
when it comes right down to it, kind of cheesy.
There are amusing passages throughout but,
geez, I found it pretty hard to sympathize with
these bozos. However, unlike the beauuful
Company Town, which I gave my dad for
Father's Day last year (he was charmed), this
book will sit in the "rock" section of my
bookshelf.
On May 16 at the Arts Club Granville Island
join Arsenal Pulp Press for their Spring Launch
of new books by M.A.C. Farrant, Jill Robinson and Michael Turner.
The next night, the Reading Railroad
lineup for Monday, May 17: M.A.C. Farrant,
Howard White and Jill Robinson. Mae Moore,
the musical guest, will perform an acoustic set
backed by bass and guitar.
You may have seen them read at last years
Small Press Feslival or heard 'em on CBC's
Nihilities, now you can pick up The Skinnier
Leg of The Journey, the first release by the
Black Cat Collective Press. The nine stories—three each by Rob Howatson. Anne
Jew and Lisa Marr-tackle the subject of
travel and discovery. Rob's subjects are found
spying with binoculars and lazily bitching a
ride while Anne lakes us on a sunny holiday
with two friends whose relationship is waning
and to a dreadful cafe meeting with the
ultimate—though sadly readily available—
Euro-nerd. Lisa's tale of running off to Vegas
to get married is a laff-riot! 77k Skinner Leg
of The Journey is a bargain at ten bucks and
available around town (R2B2, Granville
Books, POP! and more). Lisa is also the vox/
bass player with the local trio cub, so look for
the book and their brand new single, Hot Dog
Day, at gigs.
I highly recommend Flight Paths of the
-mperorbySteven Hekjhton.abook which
was sent to me by its publisher, The
Porcupine's Quill (great name!). These 14
short tales all deal with Japanese culture seen,
mostly, from tbe eyes of the English who Uve
and work in the country. 1 must confess I've
only read two stories so far, "Five Paintings of
the New Japan" and "An Apparition Play."
Hey...this writing is so wonderful I'm going
to take my time and savor each story.
I last wrote of Cliff Burns when reviewing
his amazing collectionofpsychologicalhorror,
Sex and Other Acts ofthe Imagination (out of
print). Cliff and I met when he was a guest at
V-Con a few years back and have kept in
touch. I have no doubts that Cliff is going to
be a big thang; be has the chops as a
writer and the integrity of a true soul.
He and his wife, Sharon are living
in Iqaluit, NWT, where she is
teaching high school and be posted
me his new chapbook, That First,
Wound-Bearing Layer subtitled B-
Sides and Unreleased Singles
Volume 1. These very short pieces
(keep in mind Cliffs speciality is
tbe short, short story) read as long
run-on sentences dripping wilh pain
and horror.
This ain't no sissy boy horror with
monsters and the like, this is the
horror of realizing your mate is insane and, come to think of it, you
haven't seen the dog for a few days.
Good ol' everyday horror; the stuff
found in a house on your block.
Personally, knowing what a gentle
person Cliff is makes reading his
work that much more interesting.
Something happened to Ihis 28-year
old somewhere along the line; something 1
may not want to find out. Order your own
copy of this book for a mere three bucks from
Greensleeve Editions, 7935 - 27th Avenue,
Edmonton, Alberta, T6K 3C9 and look
for Cliff's appearance in the
forthcoming Splatterpunks Volume 2
(ed. Paul Samnion), as well as the
anthology In Dreams (UK import,
Gollancz, $6.00) which "celebrates"
the 7-inch single with SF and Honor
fiction (although, all-in-all, a fairly dull
collection).
I've been aware of Crad Kilodney for
the past eight years or so. He's the guy
who self-publishes his own books and
sells Ihem on the streets of Toronto
(since 1978). It is with great pleasure
that I announce a joint subtext/Gnint
Gallery venture bringing the joy of
Crad to Vancouver. He will read at the
Grunt Gallery (209 R 6th @ Main) on
Sunday, May 23, 8 PM. He will also sign
copies of his latest work, Suburban Chicken-
Strangling Stories. Crad will also be reading
at the Denman Island coffee house on Friday,
May 21 ...an adventure that won't be forgotten
too soon. For those not familiar with Gad's
work I urge you to check out his two books
distributed by a "real" publisher, Black Moss:
Girl On A Subway and Malignant Humours.
Both collect a quasi-"best of* his writings.
On Sunday, May 16 ABC will broadcast the
six hour mini-series Wild Palms, produced by
Oliver Stone. The show is based on the comic
strip which has appeared for the past few
years in Details mag (which is a not-so-guilty
pleasure of mine and a bargain @ $2.50).
Although I read the mag every month I've
only glanced at fhe strip a few rimes cos I
haven't a clue what it's about. Its wondrously
complex. Oh well, I can tell you that the
writing is by Bruce Wagner, art by Julian
Allen and its pages are filled with encugh
oddball treachery and secrets to make
Freemason's appear status quo. The TV show
sounds like a good bet and, hey, Angie Dickinson plays a demon! Abo look for yummy
commercial tie-ins, such as the soundtrack by
Ryuichi Sakamoto and at least cue book.
On the Usenet, which I access via computer,
there are many cool groups (and loads of dull
ones) to which one can send/read messages.
Such as use_lt_ines which is like Factsheet
SECRETS   ENTRUSTED
TO A FEW
ITfl'J'JHilWi'iE-U]
Five on-line. I've been encouraging readers
of the group to send me their 'zines which I'll
review here. The first I've received is a boot:
Dysfunctional Family Circus takes original
cartoons from the Family Circus comic and
puts in new, improved captions. No return
address was included and inquiries on-line
met with no real success (a bunch of us were
sent the 'zine). A small square bound
booklet, the back cover offers other
similar books with titles such as See, I
toldyou cats could smell dead people and
Eat Snow Hobo. It's obvious that the
publishers of this groovy smut arekeeping
a low profile. If I find out how to order
these gems I'll endeavor to let you know.
Have you ever read Concrete'! Written
by Paul Chadwick and published by
Dark Horse Comics, this wonderful comic
cameout between 1986 and 89. Originally
seen in Dark Horse Presents, a monthly
anthology of cartoon art that continues
today (up to issue #70), Concrete eventually got his own comic.
So what's it all about? Well, political
speech writer John Lithgow and a pal
were camping when they were kidnapped by
aliens and had their brains transplanted into
big, clunky, heavy concrete bodies. The two
were subjected lo rigorous testing of their new
bods and found they had amazing eyesight,
strength and stamina (no genitals, tho).
They managed to escape but John got
separated from his friend and then the
aliens left.
Now I can just see ya going "hoo, is
Ihis hokey!" but, trust me, it's a very cool
comic. Ron manages to make it back to
civilization and works out a deal with the
U.S. Government where they take care of
him (monitor his new bod and hire two
assistants). Along the way Concrete
becomes somewhat of a celebrity and is in
demand on the party circuit. He is bemused
by his sudden fame and, as always, retains
his integrity.
The various stories capture different events in Ron's/Concrete's life. He has
hobbies (including collecting erotic art!)
and interests (wildlife, camping) and often
answers 'Tan mail" requests for his help (in
one tale he helps save a families farm).
Chadwick's character is drawn so
well and hassuch a heart of gold lhatyou've
got to read it to believe it. In fact, you'll get
a chance Ihis month when two brand new
Concrete comics come out. Check any
comic shop for more details, and ifyou like
it search out back issues or get Ihe collection
which is available. Concrete rules!
RLE  ARE   READING
Ever wonder what "People Are Reading"? I do. Chris Brayshaw, whose
writing has appeared in Horizons, SF, Arc, the Vancouver Sun and these very
pages, took the time to write and tell subtext.
Poetry by Hannah Landecker and Eric Morten, two of Vancouver's most
promising young writers, can be found in recent issues of 77it Cupilano Review
and Whetstone.
Landecker has been previously published in Books In Canada and
various small press magazines. Her writing is distinguished by its lyrical
evocation of the physical world and the scientific metaphors she uses to describe
inner psychological states. Her style reminds me of early Margaret Atwood, or
the Janet Frame of Intensive Care and 77ie Carpathians.
Landecker's best piece to date, "descent," is apoem about migration and
personal history. "I was bora on the other side of the world," she writes, "and
am third generation mishmash."
you of pure doukhobor
descent can say - my mother's feet
walked the soil that her mother's did
and her father before that, under the same
piece of sky in the gue of british Columbia -
while I pull from cities that have
lost their names and countries
since my father's parents fled.
The precision and grace of Landecker's writing make her worth
watching; to my mind, she is the best young writer currently working in
Vancouver.
While I've followed Landecker's writing for several years, I only
know Eric Morten from "Suicide Note," an excerpt from a long poem-in-
progress he recently published in 77ie Capilano Review. Morten's style owes
a lot to the tish poeLs who haunted Vancouver in the 60's—in particular Frank
Davey, who once wrote an apparendy endless series of poems about the
Lion's Gate Bridge. What I like best about Morten's writing is the way it
moves effortlessly between descriptions of internal and external landscape:
space becomes substance,
green
acted upon by causes
words become spherical,
silver things.
"Suicide Note" will undoubtedly be collected on completion; watch for iL
The Capilano Review also has a fine photographic essay by Don Gill, and a
number of poems that unashamedly plagiarize bill bissett's idiosyncratic
rhythms and spelling without offering anything new of their own.
(Capilano Review Fall 1992, $9 + postage from Capilano College, 2055
Purcell Way, North Vancouver, BC, V7J 3H5. Whetstone, $5 + postage from
AMS Box 12, 6138 SUB Boulevard, Vancouver, BC, V6T 2A5.)
Mao 11, by Don DeLillo, gets my vote for best novel of 1992; it's now
available in paperback DeLillo is a major influence on writers like William
Gibson and Thomas Pynchon, yet his work is constantly passed off as
"difficult" by people who are too lazy to actually finish his books. Mao II is
DeLillo in top form: the story of a reclusive, failed novelist who makes an
abortive attempt to save the life of a Swiss poet held captive in Beruit. The
novel begins with a Unification Church mass wedding at Yankee Stadium
and concludes with a photographer's flashbulb bursting in Beruit, "the dead
city photographed one more time." Most critics read the book as a study of
individuality versus the mob; DeLillo's sympathies don't lie where literal
readers might be tempted to think they do.
Neal Stephenson's Snow Crash has also appeared in paperback.
Stephenson is the author ofthe very odd The Big U, a wholly indescribable
novel—Animal House meets Repo Man. Rudy Rucker's blurb on the back
cover makes laudatory comparisons between Stephenson and Pynchon,
which are pretty apt: Stephenson matches and occasionally exceeds the
hyperactive pace of the Gravity's Rainbow chase sequences and most of
Vineland; you keep expecting the plot to lag or come flying apart in midair,
but somehow it never does. What separates Stephenson from the Terry
Prachett/M__ magazine school of SF satire ls his deep and abiding interest in
things other than satire. We think we're reading about Teflon-armored pizza
delivery people and psychotic ninjas when we re aciually leammg the
paradigms lhat accompany the shift from a print-oriented to a visually-
oriented culture (viz Neil Postman, Amusing Ourselves to Death.) HAVE YOU SEEN OUR TURNTABLES?
CITR WAS ROBBED ON SUNDAY. APRIL 25.
Taken from the station were two TECHNICS SL-1800 MARK ■
2   turntables;   serial   numbers    #DA9810B007   and ,
#DA9810B117. If you or anyone you know has any informa- ,
tion on who is responsible and/or where these turntables ,
are, please call Linda Scholten at 822-3017 or the RCMP at ,
224-1322. Callers may remain anonymous. Thanks. ,
AT ZULU, TRACK, AND BOOM CD'S OR BY MAIL FROM INTERNATIONAL
_. _» ^-T^  rrJ _ _f -Lil    ^ mm oaJleluUah GOOD NEWSJII
FREE SNOT OF JESUS
BOOGERS OF OUR LORD & MESSIAH
SCIENTIFIC PACTI J_^ BIBLICAL PROOF!
JESUS
"CHRIST"
LORD OF      \
LORDS!       I
SCIENCE PROVEN! **.** SCRIPTURAL PROOF!      WZ.
SEND FIVE DOLLAR LOVE GIFT TO
INTERNATIONAL SECULAR ATAVISM
IN CANADA* P.O. BOX 1776 STN."A" VANCOUVER, B.C. V6C-2P7 1=
IN U.SA.: P.O. BOX 69243, PORTLAND,  OREGON, 97201
I SCIENTIFIC FACT! SCIEN-TERRRIFFIC F
FOR FREE STICKERS OF THIS AD SEND A S.A.S.E.
^ L1r0 "Consider The Alternative"
t^j  Fogg's Captive Bead
^y   Jewellery Company
, Merc ings atThe Underground
710 Robson St. 681-8732 Thurs. - Sat. weekly
" "no attitude"- guaranteed
Phone: 322-8924
ATTITUDE
NON-STOP ALTERNATIVE HORMONES...
MUSIC BY CITR...LIKE YOU CARE
LIVE BANDS EVERY
THURSDAY NIGHT!
ADMISSION IS FREEH
MAY <_
BANDS START® 9:30
THE PIT PUB • IN THE BASEMENT OF THE STUDENT UNION BUILDING, 6138 SUB BLVD. • 604-822-6511 HfAg^       «__
^_w
Ww^
\xz^
x^#
MAY   © Jf#t£/f4&i^GVC
In 1993 no one talks about
wrapped up in a strange
circular argument of ethics. Is such and such a band
indie or not indie? Have
they sold out? "Oh, they
used to be cool until...",
and terrible bands fall all
over themselves to lay
cl aim to the irrelevant marketing term "alternative."
Jaded writers almost seem
to have forgotten how powerful a good song can be.
This really has very little
to do with a Boston band.
Come, except that up until
a couple of weeks ago I
found myself in the same
sort of trap: hating almost
every record I heard, criti -
cizing almost every band
tha
dow
the
pipe. ..it's sort of funny what
a good rock show can do.
Come are four people, each of whom have
played music for a number
of years: Thalia Zedek
with seminal Boston underground groups Dangerous Birds and Uzi, later
with NYC noise gods Live
Skull; Chris Brokawplayed
drums for the vastly under-rated Codeine; and the
rhythm section of Sean
Slade and Arthur Johnson
come from the Athens,
Georgia scene where they
were playing in the Kilkenny Cats and Bar-b-q
Killers. They all came together in Boston and were
given their first exposure
when they were asked to
do aSub-Pop single ofthe
monthinlate 1991. After
this initial exposure things
really started happening
and within a few short
months Come were in the
studio recording their debut album for Matador, entitled Eleven; Eleven.
Eleven; Eleven could
possibly be one of the best
albums of the year. Truth
be told, it is a rock and roll
record,but in the 90' s sense.
For every debt that this
album owes to blues-based
70's bands like the Rolling Stones, the rhythmic
sensibility is more akin to
bands like the Jesus Lizard or Fugazi. The songs
think it ■
resonate with a sort of anger and hopelessness that,
along with Thalia* s potent
vocals, are the soundtrack
for a stormy evening. This
is not an "up" record by
s but because of
songwriting   I
11 souiid as good
in ten years as it does to-
As much as I love
Eleven: Eleven,1 was extremely excited to see
Come. I was granted that
wish when they chose to
visit Vancouver as a stop
on their current tour.
Choosing Zulu Records for
a 4 PM in-store performance, border problems, unfortunately, made both
Come and their label-mates
Bettie Serveert quite late—
by the time Come arrived
at 6:00 alot ofthe people
that had shown up at 4:00
had felt the pangs of hunger and gone home for dinner after Bettie Serveert.
Regardless, Come set up
their gear and by 6:30 were
ready to roll for the 30 or
so people that had the good
sense to stickaround. What
followed was perhaps one
ofthe best performances I
had ever seen. It seems
that Come had never played
in a store before and were
quite overwhelmed with
the fact that people were
Actually there who knew
their songs and had heard
their record. Requests for
songs were made and were
played. Although they
pi ay edf or only half an hour
they were able to create
phere and ambience that,
to use a bad cliche, time
seemed to stand still.
This is really what the
power of music is. For
while some critics might
dispute a band like Come
for being too traditional,
too slow, or too sorrowful, for me at least they
allow me to reinvest in the
concept of rock music,
something that jokers like
Pearl Jam or Jesus Jones,
even though they might be
able to write some pretty
catchy songs, will never
be able to pull off. Those
bands lack songs that have band: four people that re-
that indefinable quality of ally love music and love
soul. Come would, in their to play together. Six-string
own modest way, consider soul music for anyone who
themselves as just another cares. BY MARK KLEINER
think, of 86 Street?
Moe Berg asks my
cohort and I as he and
T.P.O.H. skin-basher,
Dave Gilby, chat with
us over java and
breakfast at a downtown Vancouver hotel. The two were in
town for three whirlwind days of "stroking the trade" in promotion of their newly
released LP, The
Downward Road,
theirthirdtodate.The
group has since returned to town for a
Commodore Ballroom engagement
with 54-40, thankfully passing over the
former* Expo site, to
perform a show that
featured a set closing
rendition of Prince's
"When Doves Cry,"
along with all of your
fave T.P.O.H. tracks.
The Downward
Road is, in actuality,
not a bad record, however, it 13 onlythe th ird
best album The Pursuit of Happiness
have recorded thus
far. There are a hand -
ful of excellent songs
C'Heavy MetalTears"
being by far the high
point) along wtth
many numbers that
suffer under a piod-
dy, steri le production
sound from the newly
recruited EdStasium.
And lyrically, you just
can't help but get the
feeling that Moe Berq
is straining a little hard
under his reputation
for making irreverent
observations about
getting laid. But while
some diversity in the
lyrical department
would have been very
welcome at this point
in their thirtysome-
thing careers, the
guys don't sound like
they want to shake
things up too much.
"We re not against
having a hit," Dave
explains, "but I'd rather have this career
than that career. Like
54-40, who keep
putting out records,
as opposed to Tiffany
who probably
couldn't get arrested
anymore. '
Immediately, it becomes obvious why
Moe, despite his position as the Pursuit's
visionary, is not doing these interviews
alone: Dave Gilby
adds a real smooth
and personable vibe
to the conversation
while Moe spends
much ofthe interview
in polite detachment,
contemplating his
slice of hotel restaurant-prepared ham.
Predictably, the day
jobs each held down
prior  to  their   1988
signing with Chrysalis were at opposite
endsoftheemployed
musician spectrum.
While Dave recalls
paying duesasabell-
man, working in
Yonge Street record
stores and delivering
pizzas, Moe recounts
stories of moulding
plastic ice cream
buckets, cutting carpet ("I cut the shit out
of my hands—I
lookedlike MattZim-
ble.">, and a 6.00 AM
gig shovelling vomit
off a racetrack. So has
the re I ief of becom i ng
a self-supporting musician changed his urgency as a songwriter? "Notreally, Moe
assures, "life became
easier and it gave me
more time to do it."
Hence, Moe's
"descent into adulthood," in everyway,
has not been the
"downward road"tbat
hesingsofonthenew
record. If coming of
age really is tfie exercise in disappointment that he describes, perhaps rock
'n' roll has offered
some temporal salvation—kind of like itdid
for the character in
Lou Reed' s "Rock 'N'
Roll." "[Playing rock]
keeps you in a constant state of adolescence," agrees Moe
when I put this theory
to him. "When you
see the Scorpions, or
somethina like that,
they probably behave
much like when they
were seventeen years
old...I don't know if
that's such a good
thing."
' it'sgood if you're
forty," Dave suggests.
What separates
the best of Moe's writing from label-mates
like the Scorpions is
his patent awareness
that he is getting older, even as his rock
gig keeps him feeling
young. However, to
keep this full-time
rock 'n* roll gig almost
inevitably demands
appealing to an audience that becomes increasingly younger
than himself. "I think
kids are a lot smarter
and have a lot more
understanding than
people give them
creditfor, Moe says,
downplaying the pos-
sibility of his lyrical
themes alienating the
"youth gone wild." "I
think teenagers like
to thinkof themselves
as being older than
they really &re, besides," be adds
knowingly, "it's something that's going to
happen to them right
away."
MAY  ® Bob Mould is no stranger to Vancouver. Both as a solo artist and reciprocal member of groups which led the way for their respective generations,
Mr. Mould has frequented our green, West Coast knoll almost so much to warrant him citizenship status. Memories serve up Bob and his
Minneapolis co-horts consigning their first single, "Statues," to local record stores, gigs at clubs which are now mere rubble or reserved for techno
marathons, and a solo showcase with a sore throat, a bag of acoustic tricks and a sidekick who would begin to make quite a name for himself—
Vic Chesnutt. Now Bob returns with the fine granulated sounds of pop-hooksters, Sugar.
In a short 8 months since the release of their debut album, Copper Blue, and tour which took them to England, Australia, Japan and through
North America, Sugar have followed up their virtual overnight success with a seasonal-type EP, Beaster. Co-produced with Copper Blue-
helmsman, Lou Giordano, Beaster is a vehicle for Sugar in the raw. Whereas Copper Blue wreaked of slick production, almost on the verge of
over-production, Beasterhints at the sonic aggression more akin to Sugar's Uve show. A veteran to the producing gambit—having produced band-
mate Malcolm Travis' ex-band, The Zulus', Down On The Floor debut—Bob Mould has finally compounded the sounds which he has heard in
his head for oh-so long.
14 zst^^smm^ Discorder: It seems that the Sugar project
crept up on everybody, basically kept
under wraps until live dates and Copper
Blue were just around the corner. Is that
the case? Were you holding back on the
publicity of forming this new band so you
could erupt from the ashes of you solo
Bob Mould: Well, to put it all back into
perspective, when I did the solo acoustic
dates in '91 it was just something that I
wanted to do for myself: to clear house,
all over, and spend some hme just playing
music and not worrying about anything
else. Through tlie course of the year there
were record companies calling going, "Well,
we heard you got out of your deal with
Virgin, we'reinterested blah-blah-blah-blah-
blah. What are you doing?" And I said, "I
don't know. I'm just spending this year
inaki ng music, we' 11 worry about that later."
I guess around October of last year I got a
hold of Malcolm and David and said, "What
would you guys think about gettin' together
and playing some time in the future?" And
Ihey were both, "Yeah, tliat'd be real cool."
So I sent them tapes of a bunch of songs I
liad written and said, "Well, let's start with
these. If you like any of diese we can try
wntin' some stuff, you know. Let's just see
what happens." And we got together in
I had already been talking
labels at that point, seriously, and it was
starting to narrow down as to who was
going to be involved. When we got together
in February Malcolm and David had
met and I didn't know what the chemistry
was going to be like so I was still being
pretty open about the whole tiling. After tlie
first day of rehearsal we knew it was gonna
be a band. It wasn't gonna be a recording
project, it wasn't gonna be this or that, it
really was gonna be the beginning of a long
term diing. We spent March and April making the record, doing a lot of recordings, a
couple dozen tilings we were working on,
did the tour in July, and went over to England in August. We went over and did 2
shows in London and they went pretty nuts
about it there.
That's pretty much how it evolved. I
mean, there wasn't really a conscious plan
to keep it under wraps. I tliink we just
wanted to go out in July and make sure it
was all going to work on a touring level
before we started running our mouths off
I guess it is safer to not give people all
these visions of grandeur rather than not
being able to fulfill them.
Yeah, it's just good to test drive die car
before you drive it. [laughs] But, it's definitely up and running now. We got a good
head of steam going right now. Everybody
is real excited, diings are really taking off
with diis record and we just gotta get out
Ihere and convince people diat diis is a band
and it's not a new Bob Mould solo project.
Speaking of, I don't know whether this is
a touchy issue or not, what happened
wilh Toni [Maimone] and Anton [Fier]
and working with them on the last two
were a lot of problems with Virgin, there
were problems with management, there were
problems with the three of us just not communicating at all. I had enough of it. Nothing seemed to work, nobody seemed to be
happy and I was like, "Well, why ci
this?"
A lot of people are drawing comparisons.
Beyond the fact that it's my voice, I wrote
this batch of songs, I play guitar a certain
way—things that are hard to change—there's
no resemblance at all. I don't thinkdiis band
sounds hke Hiisker Dii, nor would we want
to. It's hke it in the fact that I was in both
I, die Workbook thing started out great;
ls my vision and it was really clear as to
I was going on. We did alot of touring
19 and Tom and Anton were diere to
e the second record [Black Sheets of
|. In hindsight, I'm not really thrilled
it diat record because it's pretty one
■nsional at die end of die day. Sonically,
;t got so murky and dark. Those songs
• supposed to be a lol more uplifting
they sound on that record—I found
acquired with hme and everything has its
place in time. And this record wasn't meant
to be 7 minute opuses, it was meant to be 3-
4 minute pop songs.
Do you feel you've matured quite a lot as
a songwriter?
Um, I'mawareof my
strong points now.
Things that I did unconsciously I know
what they are now.
I' m al way s stumbling
on to new ways of
writing, new ways of
getting a sound out
ways of incorporating found audiopieces
into music..you get
good at one thing and
you start dabbling in
other things with the
hope that you can get
diem up to speed as
quickly as possible.
When I listen toy our
lyrics it really, really paints a picture
in my mind of what
you're saying. Al-
iii ost every time I listen to them I have a
!>    gO
loingt:
So, it just sort of fell apart. There was
too much negative energy getting built up
and it just started to feed on itself and it was
all getting real familiar. There were a lot of
parallels and I was like, "Wait, I've seen
diis before so let's just stop before it gets
real bad."
So what did your new members David
Barbe (bass) and Malcolm Travis (drums,
percussion) bring to you that you enjoyed and made you say, "Hey, I wanna
make an album with these guys. This is
finally going to be Copper Blue"?
Everybody got along as people right off die
bat. There was no ego bullshit, everybody
left that stuff at home. My idea of tryi ng to
put some people together to start a new
group, this time, was that I wanted to work
with my friends. And if they're good musicians that's good too. Instead of "I wanna
get some really good musicians and then
we'll become friends," that's the difference
between a session group and a band.
You've been residing in New York now
for a little over three years, what kind of
influence does living in New York have
on you in comparison to your time spent
in Minneapolis? I believe you had a farm
at one time as well?
[lauglis] Yeah, diat was the Workbookfaim.
That's long gone. I had to get out of
Minneapolis, I had spent so much hme diere
it was really getting stale; there was nothing
diat was influencing me any more. New
York is a good place to move to when you
just want to start over and sort of reinvent
yourself. You know, you got alot of space,
a lot of anonymity and there are a lot of
options here. Musically, how it influences
what I'm doing, I'm not sure. Maybe the
fact that in New York you gotta have an
answer for everything really quick shows
up in the work. [Copper Blue is] More
immediate and to die point, and not quite as
long and involved as Workbook was.
With Copper Blue have you been accused
of drawing on your old band's stuff?
bands and that's where it stops.
Do you ever get tired of being tagged as
the "ex-Hiisker Dii band member," and
is it a stigma for you?
Well, if people do it in advertising they have
to forfeit the entire guarantee and we don't
play, so it doesn't happen in advertising
much anymore...it works for Chuck Berry.
People are hesitant to leave the past alone,
I've washed my hands of it. I've found, over
the last few years, that the less I talk about
it the more people write about it. So I just try
to make a few sweeping generalizations
When we played in London somebody from Creation was there with a friend
of their's who was sort of a civilian and
didn't really know a whole lot about the
past. And about 4-5 songs into the set she
turned to him and goes, "Wow, they sound
a lot hke Leatherface." Pretty soon people
are going to say we sound hke Buffalo
Tom.. .there would be an irony there. There' s
nothing I can do to change the way people
look at things, so the more absurd it gets the
Is there more of a burden on your shoulders to put out a good album as a producer/songwriter more so than just being a) a producer, or b) a songwriter?
Well, it's a tricky position to be in because
you' re always learning to try to be more and
more critical of your own work. With Copper Blue the differences, from a production
standpoint, are real obvious. A song hke "If
I Can't Change Your Mind," in the past,
might have been buried with really heavy
guitars, down-played vocals and all that.
This time I realized, "No, this is a great pop
song, why dose it widi all this stuff it doesn' t
need? It was written on a 12-string, let's
play it on a 12-string." Overall, with the
idea of production and songwriting in tandem, you have to learn to get more to the
point widi your writing because no one else
is there writing parts out or saying. "This is
a great story but it doesn't need to be 7
minutes long." Those are diings dial are
with what's happening in the song. I
guess this is in comparison to folk singers. Have you ever
been compared to the sty lings of a folk
Yes, that's the root of popular music: songs
diat are derived from personal experience
and portrayed in a very simplistic way. It
makes sense, I think we all have a little bit
of that in us but some of us are more aware
of it than others. There are some amazingly
high watermarks on diis record, like "A
Good Idea," "Hoover Dam," or "Slick,"
where the music definitely portrays what's
going on lyrically. There are alot of obvious
reference points hke die mosquito-sounding guitar on "A Good Idea," diat buzzed
around the swamp as the story goes on, or
the grandeur of "Hoover Dam," it's such a
pompous arrangement diat it really works.
Those are really fun things when you stumble on to them. When you can really make
music match-up hke it's a soundtrack for a
book or somediing it's really rewarding at
the end of the day.
It is an incredible album because every
song has it's own identity and I think it's
very hard for artists nowadays to put out
an album which can't be lumped all to-
Yeah, I like to keep people guessing. And I
think diat with die influences for Copper
Blue coming from so many different places
it was bound to be tins diverse, but sUll
sounding like the same group.
With Sugar you've made the move from
Virgin/A&M records to Ryko, what difference does this make to your career?
Since Sugar is sell-managed I'm able to
have a hands-on go of it widi the record
company on a day to day basis, and 1 diink
we're all happy for that. There is no middle
person with die obvious motives to make as
much money for themselves as possible
diat we have to contend widi. There are a
bunch of really creative people at Ryko diat
have solid and innovative ideas about ap-
proaclungmusicandhowtopromote records.
Tlieir quality control standards are really
high and that's important to the impact diat
a record can have. You know, it goes be
yond music..and they're very aware of
that; it's working hands-on with all these
companies [Ryko, Creadon, Denon] that
understand what the band is about and can
keep the objectives in focus.
So, this is very much like going back to
being on an independent label...or DIY?
It took that whole year of doing those acoustic gigs and travelling around by myself to
figure out that you really don't need to have
a lot of excess baggage. After years of
getting punched around by the stupid business I finally made the right decisions.
We've got alot of years to go and hopefully,
all these things combined—Sugar, Ryko,
self-management—can keep this kind of
momentum going forward for along period
of hme.
One thing surprised me about Copper
Blue and Beaster coming out on Ryko is
that I was more familiar with Ryko putting
out classic re-issues: the Soft Boys, Big
Star, Zappa, Yoko Ono and stuff like
that I wasn't really familiar with Ryko
in their promotion of new artists...?
Well, this has got them excited because die
artist they're working with is still alive.
Maybe this is their signal to the industry:
"We're not a fuckin' oldies label anyone,
we're gonna get in your face with this one
until you can't stand it." Hopefully it wdl
set diem up to be one of the real altemati ves
to alternative dunking bands running to the
majors for money.
And you, yourself, have your own la-
bel...The Singles Only Label. Did you
start that up as an angry gesture against
all that's bad about the major label?
No, for two reasons. To give new bands a
voice and to try and do our part to preserve
the history of 7" singles as a vehicle for new
dungs to be heard. I don't know what you
pay in Canada, I'm guessing between $15-
$20,foraCDbutwhenIgotreallyreacquainted
widi music in the mid and late '70s I was in
college, I didn't have shit for money. I
couldn't afford to buy albums at $8 a pop but
I could afford to buy a single at $1.50. And
if you liked tlie band then you could buy all
of dieir stuff. I still diink it's a really good
way to get acquainted with new bands, and
if you only give somebody seven and a half
minutes to say it it's usually going to be
pretty good.
You're either going to like it or you're
going to hate it, but even if you do hate it
you don't feel that bad because you only
spent $3.50 on it... So are you a big 7"
consumer, yourself?
Yeah, I really went dirough diat phase in the
mid/late-70's when I bought hundreds and
hundreds and hundreds of singles. Now diey're
very hard to find, with die obvious exception
of die labels who specialize in them: Sub-
Pop, T/K. There are odier labels hke Blue-
Green Gods out of North Carolina...man,
diey just crank diat stuff out. It's good but I
wish we could all get together and figure out
a way to really distribute these things properly because widi so many stores [to distribute to] it's so hard. Maybe die concept to
work on for the rest ofthe year is trying to get
everybody togedier and start some kind of
disliibiitioii|K)i)l wiih everyone handles distribution in dieir home area. It's got to be
amalgamated somehow, like a singles distribution network.
So are the Golden Palominos the Travelling Wilburys of college-rock?
You'd have to ask Anton, I've never been a
Travelling Palomino nor will I be.
Sugar plays the Commodore Ballroom with Grant Lee Buffalo and Pond
on Wed., May 19th.
MAY   Q fecwair® w®
ON    SALE    THIS    MONTH:
SEBADOH o Bubble and Scrape $9,65 cass; $14,92 CD
NEGATIVLAND - free $13.60 cd
POLVO - Jodafs helm lifestyles .$9.65 LP/cass; $12.72 CD
GRIFTERS - One Sock Missing $9,65 LP/cass; $14.92 CD
VARIOUS o Stars Hill M. $8.78 LP; $11.84CD
BIKINI KILL/HUGGY BEAR osPi(f*m     $8.78 lp
RESEARCH » Incredibly $tm£e Music $16.82 book
POND o Pond. $9.65 LP/cass; $14.92 CD
STEEL POLE BATHTUB ° 77ie Mracte o/Soun. andAtoton....$8.78 LP/cass; $13.60 CD
DOA - It's M Unusual $3.50 7"; $7.90 CD
FASTEN YOUR
SEATBELTS!
CONGRATU
As the owner of a new Swamp House ski
machine, you are about to begin an exci
adventure in creativity.
In addition to the many familiar Swamp
exclusives, like a removable extention tableland a
friction free spool holder, we can offer you these
features:
- Built-in 4-step buttonholerthat takes the difficj
out of making a buttonhole.
BIG shorts, BIG pants, new embroidery,
sick poop.
-Snap-on presser feet that are quickly removed and
easily replaced.
World Industries, Plan 8, Blind, 101, New Deal,
Bird House, Gull Wing, Venture, Thunder, Union.
- One-way needle insertion that makes it impossible
to insert the needle incorrectly. I-
- Alrwalk, HeadBone, World Jungle, Team Buttoxfk
Vans, Anarchic Adjustment, Fresh Jive, Stoopld, %
Volcom.
May we recommend that, before you start to use     f
your skating machine, you discover the many
advantages and the ease of operation by garni,
through the instruction book step by step, seal
your machine.
2951 W4tl
739-9
J 1993 Swamp House Skate Shop. All
Records & Stuff We Sell:
84. HOLY ROLLERS
2-Song 7"    ®
77. JAWBOX 2-Song7"    ®
76. SHUDDER TO THINK 2-Song 7" ®
75. HIGH-BACK CHAIRS ££5JjYpt* ®
74. HIGH-BACK CHAIRS 2-Song7" ®
73. CIRCUS LUPUS 2-Song7"   ®
72.   SEVERIN        'Acid to Ashes + Rust to Dust'-* ©
71. NATION OF ULYSSES ^p^..•* ©
69. JAWBOX 'Novelty'** ©
68. GRAY MATTER Thog'* ©
67. SHUDDER TO THINK _,w.©
66. LUNGFISH No.65&istE.R   ©
tAlso available as cassette 'Available as CD, price code®
Price Guide, including postage, in U.S. $:
Airmail
6.00
11.00
12.00
11.00
13.00
3819 BEECHER ST. NW, WASH., D.C. 20007
USA
SURFACE
& CANADA
®
7"
3.00
4.00
(B)
12" EP
6.00
8.00
©
LP
7.00
9.00
®
CD
8.00
9.00
©
MaxiCD
Jted  CATALOG!
tamps or 4 IRCs.
10.00
11.00
4 US
lESSll Bl i Quicksand is£
•■ Sergio Vej>a-I>a:
Tom
Schrei
Alan Cage-drujrf_!
Discorder ran into guitarist
Walter Schreifels before their all-
ages show at The Dugout and had
a few words with him....
Discorder:Y oumew record, slip,
is out on Polydor, you were on
Revelation before, how did this
all come together?
Walter Schreifels: People from
different labels starting coming
jrshowi
i New York at
s peak there wer
few that were really, sincerely interested. Polygram seemed Uke the
best bet at the time.
You've all come up through the
hardcore scene, have also been
in New York straight-edge bands
and have done the independent
label thing, how different is it
working with a major label?
Well, the difference is knowing
that when you make a record it's
going to come out on the day it is
really significant thing. The record
is in stores and people can see it
and pick it up, that's a good difference to me. A store doesn't have
to order the record and never have
it show up, or have it show up a
year later. For the band it's better
in that sense. People who know
Quicksand, and are thinking about
picking the record up, can just go
down to the record store and do so.
Things are done so much more
orderly.
The other thing is that they
have a press department, so we'll
find ourselves in magazines and
stuff like that. A lot of the time it
is sort of artificial...I mean, I'min
GuitarPlayerm&g&rine this month
and I'm a shitty guitarist! But,
nonetheless, I'm in the magazine.
Things like that are different.
The good thing about being
on an independent label is that a
lot of the time the independent
label doesn' t give a shit about what
you do. Like, "We're going to put
this big cock on the front of the
record and we're going to sing in
pig Latin." The independent doesn't
care! They're like, "OK, cool."
With our record label they've actually been very cool about those
kind of things; they haven't been
too overbearing with it. That is a
difference between the two. Independents seem to have more of a
lax attitude. I realise that this record
is an investment and there is money
put into it from the label's standpoint, that is one cloud in the sky,
but so f ar it hasn' t been a problem.
How has slip been selling?
Really well! We're not a huge
band but it's doing very well. With
the Revelation release we sold
17,000 copies over a period of
three years. Now we're selling a
lot of records every week that I
never thought we would sell. In
that sense it's amazing, but we're
still reaching a lot of the same kids
at this point. I'm playing to the
same people that I've been playing to for the last eight years. It's
not like we've now got groupies
coming backstage, or anything like
that, but the record is doing very
well and my outlook on it is that
My main fear with the record
is that it won't sell to the same
people who bought our last record.
I want the same people to but it.
Like, "Cool, I bought their last
thing and I like this too," not "I
can't relate to this because I saw
Walter in Guitar Player magazine—what a poseur." If we can
reach and please the same people
then, in my eyes, we did everything right and everything is cool.
This is Quicksand's second time
to Vancouver, the first time you
were touring through with Helmet. How does this tour compare to the last one?
The tour with Helmet was bigger,
it was a different audience from
what we were used to. However,
we always had our little contingent of people; there were 10orl5
kids who knew who we were and
the rest of the audience saw Hel-
metonMTV.orw
or for whatever n
at that gig. We'r
Helmet is, we ha'
point yet. We're m
I said, we're playing to the same
kids. We'll play to 200 kids all
through the South, the same people I've been playing to with
hardcore.
I' m interested with this tour,
I was expecting that maybe we'd
have found this new audience but
so far that hasn't happened. At
this point it's very much the same
nto Helmet,
n they were
m MTV. Like
experience that I' ve had in the past,
only this time around I' m in a nicer
van. That's another blessing from
Polygram. The little things mean a
lot.
Have you received any flak from
the major label nay-sayers?
I don't think so. As far as people
giving us flak, I don't think anyone really identified with us in that
way. People haven't placed those
kinds of expectations on us. The
fact that we were on an independent label doesn't mean that I'm
running for Independent Label
President, because I'm not. If we
could have been on a major label
for our first EP we would have
done it. We want to put out music.
If we couldn't have put out our
first EP on Revelation I would have
saved up my money and put it out
The idea behind the band is
to put out the best music that we
can make and reach as many people as possible. This is the best
opportunity we' ve gotten to do that
so far and that's why we went for
it. If you think that being on a
major label is not cool, and you
can't enjoy a band because they 're
on a major label, because you are
against the corporate...whatever,
the solution is simple: you don't
go to the shows and you don't buy
the record. Because if you do you
are contributing to that cause.
There are some people that
hate CDs and therefore hate your
band because you put out a CD and
not vinyl—when we were on Revelation Records people would give
us shit because we put out CDs.
Some people feel strongly about
that, and that's their right, but I
feel that there are more important
things to get emotional about than
CDs. There are people al 1 over this
world who are starving and living
in the worst conditions. I like vinyl, I like bands on independent
labels, but those aren't the things
that really drive my life.
Those things are nothing compared to the problems of the
Exactly! Or even the real problems of your own life. OK... "I don't
want to support CDs because they
ruined vinyl and that sucks," and
"I don't want to support them be
cause they are on a corporate label." Well, what do you do? Do
you live with your parents? What
do you think your parents do? Are
they the Ghandi's? Your parents
are out there working for some
shitty corporation, paying your bills
and feeding you. When you get
your job you'll also have to pay
your taxes to our scumbag government. You really have to pick your
causes. Pick what you really be-
people because they get off on the
reaction from a crowd, or they get
off on praise of their work, or they
just get off on the process of doing
music. People write poetry, people
write in their journals...no one reads
your journal but it makes you feel
better. That's how music is with
this group.
You'll see bands that will
make a package and send it off to
a major label to get signed. If they
a    ,>a
garage— The Rodents—and we'd
play these little punk songs. Our
big goal was to play a party. Then
we played a party and it was great.
The next thing was Gorilla Biscuits, our big goal was to play
CBGB's. The day we played
CBGB's was the biggest thing. I
couldn't believe it! I couldn't sleep
the whole night before.
Each time you set yourself
up. As you achieve your goals, that
Iieve in and work on that.
At this point we are on a
maj or label and I' ve got some money
from that. I'm not rich, but I don't
have to work. Before, we were
driving in a van with no windows,
I didn't have any money and this is
what we did. We didn't care. I
didn't think "Oh, well...I'm not
making enough money. I'm not
big enough of a rock star. This
does not suit my ego." People make
don't get signed they've wasted
their time. We were a band who
did this thing and eventually gained
When you first picked up a guitar and started playing did you
ever imagine that you would be
doing this Quicksand thing: touring around, on a major label?
At first I was in a band in my
is your satisfaction. You can't sit
in your room and think, "Well, I'm
going to write this song and this
song is going to got me to number
one in the charts, or I'll be pissed
off." You don't really have any
control over what happens. You
don'thaveanycontrolover whether
people like your record or not. People could very well say that your
records suck and no would buy
them, but you'll continue to do it
anyway
MAY
© BY NARDWUAR BY BEPI
llllfillll __i________.
nriNHViNHi THE POOH STICKS are a quirky little group from _ town called Swansea, nestled on the shores of a country that until recently
was until the Pooh Sticks a|	
independently r<'
fine records, the. . _
Seller, selling world-wide
ri »IJ\A»are a coney [jttieywp rrom a town called Swansea, nestled on the shores ot a country that until recently was a rock anomaly, Wales. I
Pooh Sticks appeared on the scene and started to put out records on their own Fierce Recordings label and proceeded to take the world by stc
' releasing a series of singles and LPs on Merce, and in America on Sympathy For The Record Industry. From the^growing underground popularity of th
ie Pooh Sticks have now found themselves right where they've wanted to be all along...on the major label BMG with their third and latest abum Mil,
a rock anomaly, Wales. That
1'     storm,
.. those
Million
The Pooh Sticks era: a pop band, pur* and simple. Leader Hue Pooh and his follow U-n.19. rowdies who make up tho rest of tho Pooh Sticks play
an tncrodibiy up-W and catchy now form of power-pop. taken directly from tho bubbleaum sounds of 70 s AM radio and transplanted here and now
n the hearts and minds of Pooh Sticks fans the world oyer. I first discovered the fab Poohs throujh their colossal hit single "Vounf People." released
Ust year on Sympathy. I became an instant fan of the anthem-like power of the Pooh Sticks and immediately set out to collect the rest of their available
-,—s who make up the rest of the Pooh S
»f power-pop. taken directly from the bubbleaum sounds of 70's AM radio and transplanted her<
' - air colossal hit sinjle "Vouns People.
—7teh/ set out to collect the rest of theii ...
discography. And when the chance arose to actually interview mega-pop star Hue Pooh, let's just say I freaked at the chance. And. $0. without further
ranting, let s set to know the Pooh Sticks!
Discorder: If you don't mind I'm going to get right into this and ask a bit
of a controversial question towards you? There has been a lot of
speculation and rumours to the effect that the Pooh Sticks don't really
exist, and that you play everything on the recordings and simply have
cute girls pose with you for the record covers. Is this fact or fiction?
Hue Pooh: No! That's not true at all! Right now we practically have a new
line-up, but there's been a real core to the group, like myself and the guitarist
Paul, and then there's Amelia from Heavenly, and Trudi. That's the line-up
that played the CMJ in New York. It's pretty much just me and a bunch of
revolving members but now we have a steady line-up, I think. You know, we
hardly do any shows, we've done like 20 shows our whole career!
For your first Sympathy LP is it true that you used a...drum machine?! ?
Uh...yeah, there's a drum macliine on Formula One Generation. Sorry, but
there's a drum macliine on a lot of the earlier stuff. I diought it was pretty
obvious.
What had you done before Formula One Generation?
Well, that was our first American release, our first record was a single called
"On Tape" and then we released a box set of one-sided singles. Then we did
a live album on.5 3rd & 3rd Records, which is an old label Uiat did The Pastels,
Vaselines, and such. Then we did a hve album on a take-off of the
"Trademark Of Quality" bootlegs, you know, a bootleg of a bootleg.
Hmmm...interesting idea. I think a few bands have done that. And then
you went on to do the list of amazing records with Sympathy: Formula
One Generation, the three stellar singles, and then Great White Wonder.
Bringing us to another abounding and vicious rock rumour...I heard
that BMG has told Sympathy they are not allowed to sell anymore copies
ot Great White Wonder and that they have to pull the album from stores,
therefore leaving Sympathy, a lowly indie label, up shi t creek. Politically
incorrect, wouldn't you say?
Oh, I thought Uiat Sympadiy had basically sold them all...I don't know, I
don't get involved with dungs like that.
BY GRANT LAWRENCE
Long Gone John [the guy who runs Sympathy) must be a friend of yours,
has he ever mentioned, ov sereairu'd, how he may be getting screwed?
Mminm, not really. John came to our shows in New York and I Uiink it's all
okay. We're his favourite band!
Don't you find it ironic that Great White Wonder came out only on CD
and is on a label called Sympathy For The Record Industry?
Yeah, that's weird. We'd like it on vinyl, and John really loves vinyl, but I
tliink he was just being told by bis people diat it wasn't worth doing. Our new
record is on vinyl over here but the format is pretty much dead.
Well, I 'm a huge vinyl fan and I 'm constantly frustrated at being force-
to shell out $20 for a tinny sounding import CD. Anyways, are you
planning to tour at all? I know you played in New York and Hoboken but
what about the rest of North America?
Yeah, we are! We've never done it before but we're planning to come over
really soon for a long time, like two montlis or somedung. We'll do all of die
States and something like 30 dates in Canada.
Wow! Will you be touring with another band?
I don't know, diere's just so many Uiings happening for us right now. We
don't really care, we'd be more Uian happy to play the smaller places.
Yeah, well, you played Maxwell's in Hoboken and that's a pretty small
place, yet your show there is already infamous. I heard that you covered
your naked body in lipstick and threw yourself into the audience!?!
Yeah, Amelia was drawing all over me in lipstick. She wrole "Heart Throb"
on my chest! It was in homage to all die little riot grrls Uiat were Uiere.
Speaking of the pop underground/riot grrl revolution thing, people
seem to have disassociated you with that. Wherein I would lump you
with other greats like Beat Happening, The Pastels, Vaselines, or
Heavenly, other people have said "No, the Pooh Sticks are a novelty and
not worth that classification."
Well, the difference between us and somebody like die Pastels is diat we
actually write decent songs.
You don't like The Pastels?
We've played widi The Pastels and Vaselines and there's a certain snobbery
that comes from those K [Beat Happening and Pastels* label] type bands.
They feel that they've been betrayed by the Pooh Sticks because we've
learned to write better songs and play our instruments beyond a beginner's
level, therefore rising above them to be on a major label and stuff. We weren't
just content to be in Uiat scene, we actually had a bit of ambition. But, I mean,
let's face it, The Pastels are awful. I saw Uiem about ayear agoand it was one
of die worst shows I' ve ever seen—they were play i ng with Jad Fair. But it was
really funny because as soon as I walked in I had about a dozen kids around
me asking for autographs! Now diis is embarrassing! So I started signing the
autograplis widi stuff like "I hate The Pastels," anrl what does this girl do? She
goes running up to the lead singer, Stephen Pastel, and shows him!!! And he
used to love us, we'd play with them anrl murder them every time, but he Uien
spent die entire night degrading rne between their songs! It was pathetic.
I've always mentioned you to Calvin from Beat Happening because I
thought that you would be right up his alley but he never seemed
interested.
Well diat's strange because he was at our show in New York, and we hung out,
and he seemed to like it. I think we should still be accepted by these people!
I mean, we're the link between them ,mil somediing much, much bigger.
What about your song subjects, they 're definitely rooted in the bubbleg-
um-pop scene of AM radio? Is this a mockery or are these sunny tunes
your heart felt thoughts?
Yeah, Uiis is another diing...I'in not completely stupid. The songs are as-
sincere as diey can possibly gel.
I love that song "Young People." We always play it at parties and dance
to it and stuff, but I know some people who find the lyrics and the whole
premise embarrassing.
When we play "Young People" live there's nothing ironic or embarrassing
about it. And when I scream "now's die time tohave faith in whal we can do!"
at die end of die song, I Uiink it's a.s powerful as Bikini Kill!
Actually, there's a band over here called Bum who cover"Young People"
and I tell ya, it'd make you proud! Speaking of covering songs didn't you
cover a GG Allin song on Formula One Generation?
Yeah, we sort of did. We combined it into a medley in "Tonite." I believe his
song was called "In New York City Tonight" and we changed it to "in die city
tonight."
I thought that was really cool because few people kno w that GG Allin was
really into power-pop punk before he went completely insane...!
But another Uiing about people finding "Young People" embarrassing, if Uiey
come and see us live, expecting tins light poppy stuff, they're gonna get tlieir
I heads blown off! It's really rock, it's not embarrassing. They'll really like it,
it's in Uieirface! I mean it's really, REALLY rocky!!! They've got to give it
Hue! Um...that's great but, uh, don't get me wrong, that was just one
guy's opinion. We love you, really. Okay, now for some pulp, who's the
most famous person you've ever met?
I once met Julian Lennon in a club in L.A. anrldien met Lenny Kravitz at the
i recording studio in L.A.. Oh, and I saw Yoko and Shaun walking down the
' street in New York wiUiout bodyguards or anything!
; Wow, the entire Lennon family! So, do you know of any Canadian bands?
' Yeah, die Barenaked Ladies and, um, the Shadowy Men On A Shadowy
Planet. Don't they do TV diemes?
Yeah, they do the surly theme for a Canadian comedy show. So what is
your favourite band at the moment?
Well Uus week it's this Huggy Bear dung. I just think that what diey're rloing
is absolutely amazing! They've done a few singles anrl they've got a split
album widi Bikini Kill, whom they're touring with a.s well. This whole riot
grrl Uiing is so amazing! I love it!
Well, lhat's great! Anyhow, we'd better wrap this up, thanks a lot for
talking to us, Hue!
Okay, Uianks a lot, Grant. We'll see you when we get to Canada!
So, there you have it, kids, the full scoop on the latest
sensation that is the Pooh Sticks. Get out there and do
your part in making Million Seller just that Or, better
yet, snatch up the remaining independent singles and
albums on Sympathy. See you at the gig!
MAY
© Way back in the early days of Placebo's Dry Lungs InternatioriM Industrial music series,
Un Drame Musical Instantane was corralled alongside what are today some very familiar
names in the realm of difficult music: Asmus Tiechens, Controlled Bleeding, Jarboe, Zeni
Geva, Tom Ellard and Rowena's pal, Jeff Greinke, from right up here in the Pac 10. UDMI
have been included on the most recent editions of the Dry Lungs program, yet six years after
their original contribution, series compiler Paul Lemos' write-up still rings true: UDMI
remain foreign to the ears of most North Americans. Yeah. Minus readers of Discorder.
Discorder: What is the objective, written or unwritten, of Un
Drame Musical Instantane?
Jean-Jacques Birge of Un Drame
Musical Instantane: "Un" because
no recording nor live show will
look like another one. We try to
; something ni
Cocteai
-Drait
ning don
.■ Mu
chestra (A Travail Egal Salaire Egal,
Les Bons Contes Font les Bons Amis
and L'homme a la Camera LPs). In
1986, we decided to play live what we
userl to play cutting parts in the studio.
And many changes happened with die
rise of the CD. Our records are conceived as final works, they do not reflect
different things. So followed the CDs
L 'Hallali(something classical with the
opera-bouffe La Fosse), Sous les Mers
back lo "Un." At the beginning of
die group in 1976 we userl to ini-
term, preferring the irlea of somediing diat was completely different
die second before and die second
later. Tliree directions draw our
work: fiction, collective and mixing. Fiction: we don't compose
nor play pure music, we work on
sense. Collective: we compose collectively, auto-criticizing, arguing.
It's not die subject but die object
that counts for us. We do work in
such a manner widi all the people,
musicians, actors, painters, etc.,
trusting tlieinifwe'vechosen them.
Mixing: real and virtual instruments, mixing all kind of roots
(contemporary, rock, jazz, diea-
How haveyour objectives
First w
:c your •
graphic) and Qui Vive? (quite crazy
for an album), we worked then with
literature (Le K and Jeune Fille Qui
Tombe...Tombe, novels by Dino
Buzzati) as we userl to do it widi silent
movies (we were the initiators of this
movement in Europe with 19 films on
our repertoire).
Finally, we've decided to record
Urgent Meeting and Operation Blow
Up with 33 guests from all musical
origias—that was a way to open our
independent status (we have our own
studio, we often prorluce records and
shows ourselves) and meet other people we liked. Since Kind Lieder we've
decide- to compose songs to reach
more people. As we have had everything we've dreamed of, only apopular
(we love to take risks and do things we
don't know!). Making songs changes
our way of dunking a lot, we have to
deal widi identification and personal
feelings. Anil the world lias changed a
I like independent composers. Who
comes to mind today: Georges
Aperghis, John Zom (I like his cut-
ups pieces, hate his thrash-masochist
things), Kronos Quartet (not their jazz
pieces!), Rene Lussier, Michael
Mander—I could have said Conlon
Nancarrow, Frank Zappa or Robert
Wyatt, as John Cage and Miles Davis
died recently. I admire all the people
who've accepted to work with us!
GRRR Records is your distribution channel/record company,
correct? Keeping in mind the un-
pop-rock nature of your music, isit
possible for you to recoup yonr investments?
GRRR Records is our production label, we're not a distributor. Wecannot
say we earn money with the record
production, it is part of a bigger thing,
and we do earn our living very well
with our music, only with our music.
We do not have any problem being
what you call "un-pop-rock" because
we don't feel that way and because
we've made things that pop-rock musicians have difficulties doing, such
as music for films, theatre, dance,
etc., or being played at the Opera de
Pans.... Maybe Zappa has done s
sslul
mours!
'e were improvising as we
were diree: Bernard Vitet, Francis
Gorge, anil I (the Trap d 'Adrenaline
Nuit anrl Rideau! LPs). Then composing much more (since 1981) as
we've constituted die 15piece or-
In reference again to the un-pop-
rock nature of your music, what
obstacles do you face? Do you feel
you have overcome some of these
obstacles by running your own
record label?
We've run our own record label to
avoid waiting, to be free to invent,
and to go on inventing.
Is there anyone you fantasize of
making beautiful music with? Is
there any deceased composer that
you would like to have had the opportunity to perform with?
About a fantasy of "making beautiful
music," I may give you a list of people we could not reach or meet on
time for our two Urgent Meeting albums: Shelley Hirsch, Lol Coxhill,
John Zorn, Tom Cora, Robert Wyatt,
Omette Coleman, Michel Portal,
Catherine Ringer, Lester Bowie,
RichardTeitelbaum, HeinerGoebbels,
Dieter Dittmann, and so many others.
But w
About a deceased composer, let's say
theones I loved, all inventors: Charles      Un Drame Mi
Ives, Hector Berlioz, Edgar Varese,      once reviewe
John Cage and Jimi Hendrix (whom I
both had the pleasure to meet), and
maybe Charlie Mingus.
If I am not mistaken, your press
release indicates that youhavebeen
involved in theatrical exhibitions
and soundtrack material. What is
the extent of your work with visual
___r JH"_____-
We've played huge things such as
J'accuse by Emile Zola, with actor
Richard Bohringer, a 70 piece harmony orchestra, etc., in a big, natural,
urban theatre, entirely repainted in
blue, witha lotof scenery. InZappeurs-
Pompiers we were playing live TV on
a wide screen, direct with the LA
Olympic Gaines transmitted through
satellite. Sous les Mers was a tremendous show on two boats in Jules Veme's
There appears to be a thriving independently-promoted French
music scene...Xray Pop, Bene
Gesserit, Norma Loy, Trisomie 21,
Nox, Geins't Nait, Costes, Ludwig
Von 88 are among those groups
known in North America. Would
you care to comment on the scene?
I don't know any ofthe French groups
you write about. Maybe they are too
rock (in die American style) for us.
We need to be surprised at each piece.
Many musicians exploit just one idea
in all their work. Rock was not like
that 20 years ago, it was very inventive. Maybe I shall be surprised by
these groups someday. Their economic
status is much worse than ours.
Is there a strong musical underground in Paris? How is it different
than in the smaller communities of
France?
Living very independently, for so many
years, I don't know die underground
scene, which often follows a fashion
year after year. We don't. We just
follow the story of humanity and my
way of thinking has not changed even
if my ideas have moved a lot. It's
often harder outside of Paris as our j
stateisverycentralizedonParis.Many
things happen in cities like Rennes or
Toulouse, because there aremany students, but Paris remains the place.
I'm a Parisian and I love diis city.
Do you think the m usic of Un Dram e
Musical Instantane will be relevant
in ten years time? In your opinion,
has the music you created in the
'70s withstood the test of lime?
No problem for our music to get old.
I answered about fashion, I can add
that it's like good wine.
What are tlie three most important
About the three most important record-
ever I only answer for me: Sgt. Pepper's, one by Varese and one you can
What's thebest thing about Canada?
The best thing about Canada is empty
What's the best album to come from
Canada?
The best album from Canada is any
record by Glenn Gould. And Le Tresor
de la Langue by Rene Lussier (to
speak of a guy well alive).
Instantane was
once reviewed in File Magazine.
Does Claudia Schiffer like UDMI?
Doyou think Cindy Crawford would
like UDMI?
I don't know who is Claudia Schiffer.
Is Cindy Crawford Joan's daughter? I
just love Joan Crawford in Nicholas
Ray's Johnny Guitare. .^
Does Bernard require a license to
look like the guy from The Box?
We don't know The Box. About
Bernard's license to look like one of
them, be careful of whom did it first,
Bernard is 58! Ixt them send royalties to our address.
On their Conspiracy International
Project, Chris & Cosey "highly recommend headphones" to listen to
the album, or "alternately listen
through speakers at loud
volume...give priority to aural
senses." Is there such a thing as an
inaudible sound or subconscious
sounds?
You may listen loud or low unless
you don't do anything else but listening. We call our work "blind movies."
Un Drame Musical Instantane
GRRR Records                               **^—■
 D
France
1 1 •
•
S^s
n| IlljHJlJil     %JSk    Si    1^8
sl if Si ml sfi^.iii
>s as if i?
ill S'SS §
illlff
--1§ ^~
iii fiiiijj
_i ii
l ■■*»!
= S _i g "5 « § _r.I
» S - _= __ _? S3 S i
_|E|Sgg»
S s _. g S H.|
1 s I _■-_?-=
|g*_3-S
S-ll-l
I.^_I_II3IIs ^gsl_l_5_?i-|_! =
_. ||
ALL GAMES 25C/PLAY
""■_ oo'   c_ro"^-=J       ES —  SSSi^_i.:SSs:_5---5^^iro'_>       _E „ _| ;£E _;
i_ilSl
Ii    I *_:__■,& _-•***
- = 'ES      S
= I g       j_j*
i Slflliljl f lljllSl ii
IlIlllIHfl Ii
sill   iii_a
gl _!      s
1
I      |
I
i
3=
s||    il i tl     S|     g Ir-fl 1:        S    c--     *-"
13"!   ill   .§__   Il§|   =«-.   elf   s.
g-S g?_5-_b=c_-
hi fllsiPti
;.:s   5-s.s  ii__B_i__sfSgis5-s- e_-te_Lsg.-i_ii
© GRACELAND
TECHIMO
Y__*-_tAr*vc__E
;%«■_» ji_3|l_*:_c
■ !■■» HOP
KIC.(.VI
CLDB
INDIE STREET
TUESDAY
Zoo Bar
WEDNESDAY
Reggae Night
THURSDAY
Tekno Acid
Beat
FRIDAY
Wild Cherry
SATURDAY
Noahs Ari.
HOURS
9pm-2am
Lots of live shows, call for info
1250 Richards Street
Vancouver
[ 6 0H]6 8 8-26H8
ml I
To quote the Doobie Bros.
music", then you'll know w*8
ment Is about. Live. May |
Trvmes with
Peel
Pun and exciting
■
JUICE
Bulbous & Fragran
Tightertha/r Tem iring ma.,
ing season. ~ afmag Live, May 8th, New York
Theatre. 	
ROTORCLOUD
Rotorcioud
Turbulant groove rock, checkout all the hype
' the Hungry I, May 8th.
{RATTLED ROOSTER
that has I s such as
, Los Angeles, San Francisco and
JLjyo, Ma !_____
>AYTONA 300
uperb melodic noise pop adventure,
y to catch them live." May 9th, 303
astings
RED SECTOR t
World Peace
Optimisti slterna vo pop, imagine if Morrisey
was a positive poet and teamed up with
Vincetit Clark!' Live, jMtty 9th, 303 We^ji
Hastings.
*_K_f
-ATTENTION ALL BANDS-
IF YOU HAVE ANY DEMOS, CDS, 7 INCHES AVAILABLE,
WE WILL GIADLY SELL YOUR PRODUCT ON A
CONSIGNMENT BASIS. TOR FURTI IER INFORMATION
CONTACT!, MOURST.)
■ AVAILAVLE AT 568 SEYMOUR ST. (DOWNTOWN) FOUR FLOORS OF FUNI VANCOUVER,
SPECIAL
■:yiW^lll^ll_1^11[<liTif^
MY DATE WITH TOM
l's nol too often Uiat I crawl out of
nyoh-so-shelleredUfestyletochow-
lown on Buddhist vegi-cuisine, but
dien that phone rang and Tom's
oice spoke...well, I would have
lone anything.
Tlie food was great, tlie talk
s deep and tlie mood was set:
?, vegis anrl siinu-
alcd chicken whilst we gazed into
:ach otlier's eyes. The news was
leavy. He told me I would be going
ok) this issue as exams were hokl-
ng luin rlown. First fear...then de-
C'liine
GRAN
■
C   0
M
Located under
the historic
Commodore
Ballroom
850 Granville St.
Vancouver, BC
V6Z I K3
Phone 687-221 3
OPEN  7 DAYS I
FANZINES
Gee-zuz. #4
The Jesus Christ "interview" is brilliant and worth the buck in itself.
Now printed on recycled paper (cool,
how 'bout unbleached?) with tons
and tons of reviews plus an interview with Neurosis, opinions on riot
grrls, toques and suicide. Great layout and comics galore. It even had
one photo of a muscle man in a g-
string...butl want more! ($2ppd., to
297 - 810 W. Broadway, Vancou-
light. Tom assured me he would be
a phone call away. I will never forget that precious moment when Tom
reached under the table and pulled
out his bag of goodies: tapes, CDs
and videos (who would of thought,
videos!) for review in die "Vancouver Special."
1 never believed him before
but it is true, people do send in tapes
for review and, yes, diey are piling
up as we slack-off and wait until
after die deadline to submit ourfran-
tic scratching. I left tlie restaurant
with a tear in my eye and a feeling of
purpose. Here's what happened.
B.C. V5Z4C9)
Liberation, #3 (#4?)
This is from Bellinghaiu/Seattle and
takes the reader into the editor's
minds: stories of life, friends, change
and all that shit. A serious departure
from the first issue; less focus on
band interviews and a more personal take. I Uke it. ($2(?), to 1912
Electric Ave., Bellingham, WA USA
98226)
AJ Kief, III
This actually came out a while ago
but I forgot to include it last issue. A
lot of talk about legali zing pot/hemp
with more reasons than just to get
high. Opinions on religion and... life.
I'm waiting forthe next one. ($1(?),
to P.O. Box 103-1027 Davie St.,
Vancouver, B.C. V6E 4L2)
Knife, #3
The Cometbus of Canada! There is
sooo much packed into this 'zine
that I couldn't possibly begin to list
what'sincluded. Thoughts andideas,
just a taste of the editor's Ufe and
poetry from everywhere (including
poetry found at a restaurant). Cool.
($1 or $2, to Chris, P.O. Box26051,
Winnipeg, MB R3C 4K9)
DESPERATELY SEEKING
SATAN
It seems that Lucifer of Hcnoc 'zine
wrote a letter to "Airhead" in reference to his inability to "pick up cool
alternative babes" since the Cruel
Elephant closed down. My sympathy rose, but I question tlie idea that
he ever had the ability in the first
place. Most people have taste, and I
can smell him a mile away. Get a
Ufe.
LOCALITIES
How about letting us know what's
up with your band 'cause we can
only write what we know. Brand
New Unithavebeen recording widi
die time diey won from die Shindig
contest and are kicking out die best
stuff I've ever heard from them:
catchy, melodic and rockin'. Look
for dieir 7" to come out on 3 Minute
Mile Records; die recording is a
little older but still rad. Jinx, BNU's
guitarist, alsoplays drums for Strain
who have returned from a 3-day
California tour widi Undertow. Look
for a Strain 7" on Overkill Records
sometimein die future. The Smugglers are embarking on their 7-
week North American tour and kick
it all off widi a Station Slreet show
on April 30di. Accompanying Tlie
Smugglers on all of dieir Canadian
dates will be cub. For more info,
contact Tlie Smugglers' tour line @
(604) 926-9444.
THE OATH
Now repeat after me: "I, do solemnly swear...to never, ever, ever
send a cheezy, self-glorifying, 'I
wanna rock with the big boys type of
bio/shit for review in die Vancouver
Special."Seriously,it does not make
us want to Usten to your music any
more than anyone else. In fact, from
now on, if you send in a lame-ass bio
you shouldn't expect a review from
us. Is that clear?
THE LOWDOWN
Short Yellow Bus — demo
Short Yellow Bus is sort of like
third-rate Pavement with geeky
(plunging into moronic) lyrics and
NO "feel." Their dialogue gets overly
boring and I continually wanted it to'
break intosong like it dirl in the first
song, which I actually rlug. With no
dynamics and the guessing game of
whether or not that's a Wonderstuff
riff in the 2nd song, SYB sound like
the Boxer Short Boys bored on a
Friday night. (No address.)
Caeded — Unworthy Existence
These guys Teally, really hate God
and all his cohorts but think Satan is
quite the cool one. Their 6-minute
songs are a bit overbearing but the
church organ in die background sure
adds to the overall evilness. Deadi-
metal that really lives up to its
name...too much for me to handle.
(c/o Englund Lars Kaggsgatan, 16E
41503, Gothenburg, Sweden)
Ninthhour — Nice Attempt At
Nothing Special
Up-beat hardcore-punk that actually reminds me of a slightly less
energetic Active Glands (ifyou can
remember diat far back): politically
sarcastic, sing-along, snotty punk
lyrics,..really fun. On (op of that
diey do up-beat covers of Pailhead's
"I Will Refuse" and the Subhumans' /
DOA's "Fuck You." I would definitely look into tliis and die new
rlerno they have coming out soon.
(c/oStefan Neuatic, 2832 Gorge Vala
PI., Nanaimo, B.C. V9T3E3)
Fun For Malakai — Reveiie
Why I'm reviewing diis perfectly
produced "soul"-rockin funk/dance
stuff I'll never know. Tlie corporate
music biz has already overkilled this
genre anil, consequentially. Reverie
sounds like an entire record of that
slow Bootsauce song widi hints of
Seal...'nuff said. (P.O. Box 4082,
Station E, Ottawa.'OntarioKIS 5B1)
Changelings—Radio VisualCD/
You walkintoanite-club. Tlie crowd
is lame. You know nobody. You're
bored, lonely and you're dunking of
die boy/girlfriend diat just dumped
you. Tlie speakers are blaring die
Changelings.... You leave. I didn't
care to watch the video. (324 - 916
W. Broadway, Vancouver, B.C. V5Z
1K7)
Mental Pygmies — demo
I swear Glen Danzig sings for the
Mental Pygmies and I guess they
can play dieir instruments because
die solas never stop—drum solos
too! Comparable to the Smalls at
times but notliing too memorable,
except diat it's groove-rock from
across die border. (1005 W. Cascade, Mt. Vernon, WA., 98273
US
&   7   NIGHTS
the Vancouver collective
COLLECTIVE   W&rtn&stfays
csP Tho Hungry Eye
23 W„ Cordova
cheap draft
ALTERNATIVE Sundays
@ Level 5
595' Hornby
drink specials
great bands
looking for more local original bands ■ all styles, professional attitude
phono   876-7804
sponsored by Not Just Another Music Shop.
Mutant Starfish     demo
Mutant Starfish sounrl like a cheap
demo of an older Concrete Blond
widi a male vocalist. I'd like it a lot
more if die guitars were louder &
more rUstorted. I have no idea what
they were trying to achieve widi
dus. Maybe that's better...? (Box
814, Station. A, Vancouver, B.C.
V6C 2N6)
Take That — Vicarious Baglunch
Are dieses guys serious? Tlie cover
looks like a still from a low-budget
Canadian "hit" comedy, which is
actually kinda cool, but they're
yanks! "I've heard diat before" rock
i litlies and jangly guitars but cheezy
lyrics and cliches kill it. (c/o Art
First Records, 233 Frankel Blvd.,
Merrick, NY, 11566 USA)
Stovebolt — demo
If you were fortunate you saw these
guys open for Superconductor's all-
ages show? Sadly, I missed it. Jerky
yet rockin, heavy yet melodic—each
song different from the next. I can
see these guys growing into something special. Emotion packed, angst
driven lyrics filled with discontent
& frustration. I can relate. (3114
Grant St., Vancouver, B.C., V5K
3H9)
Wretched Ethyl — (/em-
Poppy, distorted guitars with semi-
annoying vocals that actually work
once you get used to them. Kinda
reminds me of something that K
Records or Simple Machines would
put out, but a bit more up-tempo.
Straight forward with a bit of punk
attitude and anger. Cool cover photos! (#202 - 1255 Broughton St.,
Vancouver, B.C., V6G 2B4)
TOM'S 2 CENTS
Sludge - demo
These guys got heavier, more intense and, technically, more proficient since I last heard them. There
is still a lot of tempo change and
doom-laden heavy riffs but die vocal style is vastly improved, bodi
powerful and melodic. Considering
that this demo serves up such a riff-
laden slab of power-grunge/
hardcore, I'd imagine that Sludge
would lx.- a live act well worth checking out diese days. It's demos like
diis that re-affirm my faidi diat there
are some amazing Vancouver-based
bands out diere. (address ?)
ALL-AGES SHOWS
Fri. 30th - Youdi Against Violence
featuring: Caustic Thought,
Sparkmarker, Brand New Unit, Fatal Hatred, Seamen, W.D.C., lOFeet
Tall and Sludge at Shannon Hall, ,<
Cloverdaie Fairgrounds (176 St. &
60di Ave.). $6 in advance, $8 at die
door, show starts at 6:00 PM.
Fri. 30th - Sweaters and guests at
Tlie Dugout, 1248 Seymour St.
May
Sat 1st- Windwalker, GuySmiley,
Scrub and Leather Uppers at The
Dugout, 1248 Seymour.
- cub anil Sparkmarker at I.W.A.
Community Hall (lOdi & Commercial). $2 show starts at 2:00 PM
Wed. 5th - Citizen Fish, Tchkung,
10:07 and RonkatClubU.S.A. (1414
Cornwall in downtown Bellingham,
USA). $5 show starts at 7:00 PM.
info: (206) 966-4459
Fri. 7th - Fugazi, Mecca Normal
and guests at the Plaza of Nations.
$7, show starts at 7:00 PM.
Fri. 14-Sun. 16 -Benefit for tlie
Rape Crisis Centre widi Heavens To
Betsy, Tattle Tale, Structure, Witchy
Poo, Bikini Kill, Kreviss, Playhouse,
Suzy (ex-Kreviss), Touch N Gos,
Facepuller, Stovebolt, Sparkmarker
and Strain at Blast Records, North
Van. Rec. Centre and Hastings Community Centre. $ lOpass forallshows.
Look out for gig flyers or for more
info, contact Meredith @ 876-4018
or Tricia@ 980-8289.
So, that's it. Next mondi Tom will give
insight toexams, school lifeand getting
drunk whilediebandsplay.Forgive me
for wliat I have done, it was all in vain.
MAY  Q EVERY TUESDAY
the cruel elephant presents its famous
70s DISCO NIGHT at ths fabulous Commodore Ballroom
(for that 'Studio 54" kinda feeling) with two 24-foot video
screens showing the 70's as only 70's mass media could,
amazing light shows and occasional very special early
performances like Edmonton's live disco/funk bandTHE RAMSES
SOUL REVIVAL (live shows @ 9:30sharp). Plus! may 11 is VIUIAGE
PEOPLE NIGHT, may 18 is ABBA NIGHT.and may 25 is DISCO
APPRECIATION NIGHT, all this at a S2 cover including GST - way
cheap drink specials and surprises galore.
-PROPER DRESS WILL OR MAY OR CAN OR MIGHT BE REWARDE)-
This is pure disco, original hits by the original stars, on the
original vinyl.
"Roscue dance music (from tha blahs)" -Funkadelic
Boogie on.
FRIDAY APRIL 30 - a double headline show
featuring two local bands on American labels "Boner'/'Scratch"
international recording monolithsSUPERCONDUCTORwiththe
pop-punk rock stylings of "Popllama" international recording
artists, playing songs from their new Spanish-only released
album "Wet PantsClub"THESMUGGLERSat the STATION STREET
ARTS CENTER. 930 Station St. behind the Old American Hotel
on Main). Doors @ 10:30 pm. Show _> 11:00 pm.
SATURDAY MAY 1
■Mint" recording artists from Vancouver WINDWALKER with
Edmonton's GUY SMILEYand srom San Francisco SCRUB (kinda
like Helmet meets Metallica) with Toronto's two-piece 'minimal-
core' of THE LEATHER UPPERS (a cross between Urge Overkill
and Ween). This is an ALL AGES SHOW at the "NAPPY DUGOUT*.
1248 Seymour (Across the street from Luvafair, alley entrance).
Doors _■ 7:30. Show & 8:00.
SWATCH MUSIC WEST FESTIVAL
AT THE NAPPY DUGOUT:
1248 Seymour St. (Acoss the street from Luvafair. alley entrance)
FRIDAY MAY 7 : JACK KILLED JILL w/ ELVIS LOVE
CHILD w/ ITCH viIFRACUS...tickets S6.Doors @ 7:30NO MINORS
SATURDAY MAY 8: ZEN w/*TOQUE w/ COLOUR OUT
OF SPACE w/ REDSUGAR...tickets S6. Doors _> 7:30 NO MINORS
SUNDAY MAY 9 FUNK'N'STEIN w/ PIGMENT VEHICLE
vil ROLLCAGE w/ THE SCRUBS...tickets $8. Doors @ 7:30 ALL
AGES
SATURDAY MAY 15
ROOTS ROUNDUP w/ special guests - This is an ALL AGES SHOW
at the NAPPY DUGOUT, 1248 Seymour St (across from Luvafair.
alley entrance). Doors @ 7:30. Show & 8 pm.
TUESDAY MAY 18
'AmRep' fest: THE COWS and JANITOR JOE w/ Vancouver/
Victoria's SEED... this is an ALL AGES show at THE NAPPY
DUGOUT. 1248 Seymour St (across from Luvafair. alley
entrance). Doors ©7:30, Show _> 8pm.
FRIDAY MAY 21
Vancouver's rockabilly kings THE RATTLED ROOSTERS w/
Victoria's LOOSE w/ Richmond's THE HOLLOWHEADS... this is an
ALL AGES show at the NAPPY DUGOUT. 1248 Seymour (across
from Luvafair. alley entrance). Doors & 7:30, Show _■ 8pm.
SATURDAY MAY 22
ex-Red Kross/ex-Olivelawn from LA: THE BOTTOM FEEDERS w/
eMpTy recording artists that include some ex-Derelicts in one
of the best punk bands ever ZIPGUN w/ just back from a cross-
Canada tour, welcome home MYSTERY MACHINE w/ a truly
unique blend of punk rock and dub reggae, a hemp-inspired
band from Long Beach. CA, "Skunk" recording artistsSUBLIME...
this is an ALL AGES SHOW at the NAPPY DUGOUT... 1248
Seymour (Across the street from the Luvafair. alley entrance)
doors <a> 7:30. show <8 8 pm.
Good Boy Productions
#4-302 West Second Avenue,
Vancouver, BCV5Y1C8
Phone 254-3344. Fax 254-7239
TIME TO COME OUT
SsfcOBDER
LOCAL MUSIC
DIRECTORY
TIME AGAIN!
The July issue will play host
to the second annual
Directory - a compendium of
contact numbers and
addresses of the folks who
are making noise these
days... and the businesses
who support their artistic
endeavours. It's FREE to
place your listing, but to
ensure that you and your
band or business are
included, GET THAT LISTING
IN NOW! The deadline for
entries is June 15, 1993...
use the handy clip-out form
below or pick up a form
from one of several cool
locations around town...
and tell a friend!
YOU ARE A: (check one, please):__BAND/MUSICIAN __PR0M0TER _REC0RD LABEL /
DISTRIBUTOR ___LIVE MUSIC VENUE _MANAGER/AGENT _STUDI0 _RETAIL STORE
 OTHER (please elaborate: )
NAME:
X DESCRIPTION(15wordsorless):
CONTACT(S):
PHONE #S:_
FAX#S:
PLtA* ILL OUT THIS FORM LEGBLY AND MAIL/FAX IT TO US BEFORE JUNE 15,1993 • THE DIRECTORY WILL BE INCLUDED IN THE JULY ISSUE OF DISCORDER
L__, ._-. __—^P. — _-_- — _ — _ —— — — — __ — . ^£> __, — _-_■.__.__._-__._. Hey, y'all, there's been a lot of
great records released recently
§ so let's git right to it... First off
is Hugh Pooh (Sticks') fave new
band, Huggy Bear. Well, I
guess great pop minds think alike
'cuz I love 'em too! Raunchy,
loud and rockin', these riot grrls
are a crash collision between
The Nation of Ulysses and Billy
^ Childish. A politically correct
Headcoatees? Maybe. All I know
is that it rocked my sexist socks
off. The B-side contains a series
of spoken word and sound bites
that fail to make much sense, so
I'll just dance to the A-side's
"Her Jazz" again. I strongly sug-
f gest that everyone go out and
purchase not just this but their
split LP as well, with fellow riot
grrls Bikini Kill. (Wiiija, 130
Talbt Road, London, England,
WlllJA.UK)
Also from the grand ol' UK
comes the Brit power trio, Jess
^ Hector and The Sound. The
generically titled "Leavin'
Town," backed with "I Need
Lovin'," are two above average,
60's style rock and roll tunes
which come close to a likeness
to The Kinks or the mighty Milkshakes, though a little more on
_        the psychedelic side of things.
• Yeah, what else is new? Don't
get me wrong, it's good, I'm just
jaded. (Clawfist, 231 Portobello
Rd, London, England, Wl 1 1LT,
UK)
Okay, everybody, get back!
The Mr. T Experience have
gone Gun Crazy! That's the title
™ of their brand new 3-song 7"
which, most notably, is MTX's
first effort since the departure of
rhythm guitar boy, Jon "Zero"
Von. Let me declare how glad I
am that the sad leave of Jon
didn't break up this amazing
punk rock outfit. Sure, some of
that backup guitar buzz is gone
but it's still MTX and Frank's
songs, "More Than Toast,"
"Swallow Everything" and, especially, "Together Tonight,"
are, as always, as rockin' as hell.
These guys started way, way
back in the early 80s as a sort of
novelty punk-wannabe act and
have emerged with the best of
'em as a great rock band with
great songs. Viva la MTX!
(Lookout, P.O. Box 11374, Berkeley, CA, 94701, USA)
The Untamed Youth are
another of my most fave bands
in the world but their new budget rock slab on Estrus has failed
to impress; it just doesn't show
off their incredible rock and roll
suaveness like their first 3 LPs
did so prominently. Interestingly enough, this is The Untamed
Youth's first actual single. It features the fairly cool lounge room
sax romp of the "Sophisticated
International Playboys Theme
Song" and the B-sideinstrumen-
tal surf cover of "Sea and Shore."
Once again, not their best stuff
but they remain one of my faves
cuz I know they got it! (Estrus,
P.O. Box 2125, Bellingham,
WA, 98227, USA)
Sticking with the instrumental schtick, we come to Auburn, Alabama's Man Or Astro Man? and their 7" EP, Possession By Remote Control—
four songs of wild surf based
around the themes of schlock
films and white trash TV. Just
check out the song titles: "Eric
"Adios Johnny
Bunch episode in which Greg
was offered a singing career by
two record mogul hippies, but
he would have to compromise
his ideals and become a teen
idol/matador singer named
Johnny Bravo?). This comparison is obvious but Man Or Astro Man? really do sound like
the Shadowy Men in that reverb
instro way. Very good and very
rare. (Homo Habilis, P.O. Box
636, Auburn, Alabama. 36830,
USA)
Moving north from Alabama and into North Carolina
we find Finger, via Spain's Radiation Records. Three great
songs in a loud, stompin', country-rock-pop format draw comparisons, justly, to UncleTupe-
lo, The Replacements and The
Young Fresh Fellows. Plus, the
B-side is a huge 10 minute medley of the coolest songs from
the early 70' s! (Radiation, Apdo
1427, 48080, Bibao, Spain)
Dig Macca are from Eugene and sound exactly like
REM. You make the call. (Red
Rover, 840 Wood way Ct., Lake
Oswego, OR, 97034, USA)
Calamity Jane and
Rockin' Rod and The
Strychnines have got together to put out a fairly decent split
single. The Calamity girls (who
may be broken up now...?) tackle the Sonics' classic, "Strych-
'Nines have done yet. Keep on
rockin',Rod!(RRS. 15825 West-
side Hwy SW, Vashon, WA,
98070, USA)
It was sheer honesty that
usetobeoneof Shonen Knife's
hooks, but it seems that that hor-
gotten the best of them. At least
that
the
ibe tl
t  1 f
listening to the free one-sided
flexi-disc included with the latest issue [March/April 1993] of
Flipside magazine. Yes, sweet
li'l. innocent, Shonen Knife actually sound tired 'n' grungy on
this tempo changing dirge entitled "Antonio Baka Guy."
Though I haven't heard their new
debut for the major label (Virgin), this isn't the Shonen Knife
that I remember and love. (Flip-
side Issue 83, P.O. Box 60790.
Pasadena, CA, 91116. USA)
How many folks out there
n tell rr
s.plea
the
"you.
e lorn
rely a
and tr
Dstly
il love-rocker which
comes out sounding pretty cool.
Thanks, gals! Rockin' Rod and
his bunch pull a bit of an unusual twist by covering the Stones'
"Lady Jane" and deliver a
ery.. .honest version ofthe
And that is the very format
of Fluf's new 6-song EP, Wasting Seed. Coming forth from the
ashes of Olivelawn, guitarist O
fronts this new and mighty combo and it's here that O shows his
real talent as both a graphic artist
and musician: boasting spectacular sleeve art and 90' s pop-rock
songs. Swellsongs, swell sound,
swell record. So all of you kids
going to see Rocket From The
Crypt later this month be sure to
get there early enough to see
Fluf, ya hear?! (Headhunter/Car-
go)
Thorsen have just signed a lucrative record contract with Meat
I was eager to spin some of the
label's other releases. Big Satan Inc.'s 2-song 7" is probably
the best slab of Meat with their
brand of noisy pop-metal similar to Seaweed. Humidifier are
a group from New Haven, CT
who also sound a lot like Seaweed! Six short songs with a
mid-80's punk feel to 'em, complete with some semi-catchy Ra-
mones-style harmonies. Finally, we come to the Fitz of Depression's self-titled, 8-song
mini LP. F.O.D.'s recent claim
'  (remember the Brady       Probably the best recording the       tie, and since my buddies from
rely be their
much toted opening slot for Nirvana at the Seattle Centre Arena
last year but beside that this Olympian hard-core outfit have
ai:o had the golden opportunity s to play with the likes of
' ludhoney. The Melvins, Helmet and Soundgarden. So they
must be good, eh? Well...maybe,
but not particularly on vinyl. To
be blunt, it's hard-core tainted
with speed metal and it went in
one ear and out the other. Something tells me Thorsen are going
to be the best thing on Meat.
(Meat, 10002 Aurora Ave.
North, #1147. Seattle. WA.
98133-9347, USA)
^^temffloH
CANADA'S LARGEST AND BEST KNOWN RECORD STORES
BUTTHOLE
S
Once upon a time, there was this band called the
Butthole Surfers, and they went on tour all the time
and ended getting into all these weird situations...
Originating in 1977 in San Antonio, the Buttholes
(or the "Dick Clark 5", "Vodka Family Winstons",
"Ashtray Baby Heads" or "The Bleeding Skulls")
toured like crazy with Mark Farner (their legendary
dog mascot), and eventually recorded their new
release Independent Worm Saloon, produced by
John Paul Jones (yes, of Led Zep fame). GET IT!
p-^^r^^ji
ftiir-
VCASS     14 CD.
EafflEEEOHEE
Western Canada's Largest Selection and Most Comprehensive Request Service
BLACK 47
Over the last year and a half, some strange and
wonderful sounds have been creating a stir in a
small Irish pub in lower Manhattan called Paddy
Reilly's. A bunch of New Yorkers and some Irish/
British ex-patriates called Black 47 combine a
sound consisting of traditional Irish influences,
hip-hop rhythms and downtown guitars. Raw,
Ripping, Irish and Black: Black 47.
ON SALE UNTIL JULY 10 AT 568 SEYMOUR ST. (DOWNTOWN) ONLY. FOUR FLOORS OF FUN!
■l
.J
MAY  Q Superchunk
DSK
Blaise Pascal
Thursday, April 1
Town Pump
When Superchunk asked how many
in the crowd were at tlieir last Vancouver performance [winter of '90,
Cruel Elephant] the silence was
frightening. Like myself, the bulkof
Superchunk's fans seem to have
turned on to these darlings of tlie
curt indie-pop(punk)song only since
the reanimauon and Black Knight™
success of that parenthesized term
that so many of us have heard but
fail to know the definition of. But
maybe tlie reason tlie room fell so
deafeningly quiet when Mac posed
this question to as was because those
who attended that lore-ish gig knew
soinetliing Uiat we didn't: to stay
home. Tlie reason being, Superchunk
is a singles band; they structure their
3-minute songs, laden with riffs,
hooks and quirky guitar/vocal refrains, to hold the listener's attention for exactly Uiat long. So once a
stream of these songs are merged
together for an hour they become
one long and tedious din. Therefore
it was not unusual to hear comment-
like, -Haven't they played tlus one
Wurster. With unmatched ferocity
Jon doesn't play the drums so much
a.s he destroys thein for every possible note Aggtessivelypoweringtliis
Superchunk, Wurster is a typical
and unfortunate case of a musician
lost to die shadows of the stage but
more deserving of the front and centre spotlight. Tlie rest of the band
.nly w
vorthy.
Blaise Pascal and DSK ("substituting" for Unsane whounplayed),
however, tipped tlie scales in Iheir
favour and kept the faith in Vancouver sstrenghteninglocalscene.With
a sound distinctly their own and the
brave ambition of a group with more
talent and carefree spirit tiian direction, Blaise Pascal lack in only one
but rather important area: their live
show. Granted Blaise Pascal are pups
to the rigours ofthe live circuit (about
7 months into it), more emphasis
will have to be placed on keeping the
listener's attention and less with,
presumably, being self-conscious.
When die band starts looking to the
audience for approval or reaction
they lend diemselves to stumbles
and errors which are highly noticeable in the slick groove they conjure. Otherwise, an improved live
show could send this band over the
DSK, on the other hand, have
an intriguing and captivating live
show. Thanks, not in part but exclusively, todieir ex-Numb recruit, Blair
Dobson. Blair is a charismatic soul
widi enough piss and vinegar in him
to make light of a very serious moment or vice versa, and wields a
strong sensibility and rapport with
his audience. Attentiveness, therefore, plays a large role in enduring a
DSK set and, unfortunately, enduring is Uie appropriate term. Because
for all Uiat Blair brings to die band in
originality and pageantry it can do
little to help die music escape its
overbearing unoriginality. Yes, die
band's format has changed but
they've simply traded their bad metal
inclination for Uie lesser of twoevils:
Ilehnet-allSeeDSKplay.SeeDSK
change their sound. See DSK break
Scooter
Bettie Serveert
Come
Friday, April 2
Graceland
I didn't have much of an idea of
what to expect from Come. I knew
that they were on Matador and it
ended there. After a rocky start
(which could be attributed to the ear
wax and cynicism being cleaned out
of my ears) the band lut their stride:
a unique mix of unconventional blues
and indie-rock noise. Tlie real centrepiece of diis band is the singer,
whose rough voice and endearing
gniffnessreiiundednieofPattiSnutli
in her emotional intensity. There
were some hard-core Come fans in
Uie audience who coaxed the band
back for an encore, and I don't think
anyone else in the room had much to
complain about...except for maybe
the lighting, which was very distracting and worked against the
band's efforts to control the dynamics of the music.
Bettie Serveert were friendlier
and more mellow than their label-
also had a few problems
establishing aconsistentatmosphere
in the cavern-like surroundings.
More notable were some newer
songs that displayed an evolving
of dynamics and pushed for-
ward to some sort of conclusion, and
the guitar playing of the bespectacled lead player (who wanked a bit,
climbing onto the speakers for an
extended solo, butalsoshowed some
tasteful restraint in a few other numbers). 1 think this band would be
enjoyable in a venue where
their smiles could fill up the room,
and maybe if lead singerCarol didn't
sound so much like Juliana Hatfield
between songs.
Rory Tait
Marc Ribot & Shrek
Wednesday, April 7
Pitt Gallery
Marc Ribot, of Lounge Lizards and
Jazz Passengers fame, came to town
with his trio called Shrek. Knowing
that Shrek is Yiddish for horror, I
brought my trusty earplugs and came
prepared for the worst. What sort of
noisy barrage of static sound could
be waiting? Well, none actually. In
fact, the odd title of the band lent no
credence to the music that I could
\ Thiswasthefirstshowlcaught
at the Pitt Gallery's new location.
Tlie long room with high ceilings
was packed with rows upon row of
chairs, the sound was fine and the
ible from the back ofthe room when
seated. The beer was inexpensive
and choice of imported pop admirable.
A number of people may have
showed up to check out the percussion of Rollins Band member Sim
Cain, who along with bassist Sebas-
tianSteinberg was just swell. I would
have liked to have heard introductions to die pieces played bul this
was not to be. Two sets of about 45
minutes each were played, widi only
about four tunes having vocals; sung
into a very tiny microphone, Marc
sounded somewhat like Nash the
Slash feeling the blues.
Ribot is known for taking elements of known songs and
incorporating new bits into them—
I heard Led Zep and Pink Floyd but
was probably trying too hard— but
my ears enjoyed the grooving,
hardjazz-pop sounds heard early into
the first set the most. Ribot's previous band, Rootless Cosmopolitans,
made two recordings which could
stave off interested fans until Shrek
go into the studio.
She who was there
Belly
Velocity Girl
Friday, April 9
Graceland
I had one of the most memorable
Easter Fridays ever: I got to see two
of the best new pop groups in today's scene. I enjoyed their music so
much that I temporarily forgot about
the heavy exams that I was going to
write the very next week.
Velocity Girl played a very
rocking set. People in the crowd
compared them to My Bloody Valentine but I failed to hear that many
similarities; Velocity Girl's music
is much more up-lifting. However,
one thing that they might have in
common is that both bands' guitarists play a Fender Jaguar. It seems
odd to me Uiat so many indie bands
choose to play that kind of shitty
Belly kicked off their set with
a couple of slower and moodiersongs
but the pace accelerated as the show
went on. Tanya Donelly's voice was
in top form and the band was very
smooth; their new bass player, Gail i
Greenwood made the whole stage a
lot more livelier.
Not being your average critical and bitter rock critic, I left the
show feeling happy. A good dose of
pop music is so therapeutic.
Vince Yeh
1991 :The Year PunkBroke
Saturday, April 10
Judge MacGill Theatre
Ilovedthis movie! People who didn't
love this movie were quoted as saying, "Gee, I really wanted to see
Nirvana live, but after that I don't
Uiink I will". Well, fuck you and
your this-better-sound-like-the-
Butch-Viggified-million-selling-al-
bum attitude, buddy! Be warned.
This is a hve film
with untouched,
unfiltered LIVE
SOUND!!! The
soundtrack resembles sewage
being forced
through a 10,000-
watt PA at 300
psi. IT SOUNDS
FUCKING
GREAT!!!
DON'T
CHANGE A
THING!!! Remember when
you had a party in
and your friend's
band played, and
you taped it and it
sounded like shit
but you still listen
perience?
This is a documentary film of
a rock tour—one of the most insane
undertakings ever devised to occupy
anyone's time. THIS IS WHAT IT
MEANS TO BE IN A ROCK
BAND. This is not some pathetic
artsy video where you can imagine
how smart/sexy/nice/friendly/cool/
hip your favourite stars are. This
film allows one to peer into the great
unknowns (and possibly the most
interesting part of getting to know
any band): what the hell do you do
on tour when you're not playing?
Thankfully, we have Thurston
Moore toentertain us instead of more
banal rock icons who just guzzle
beer on the tour bus. If you are a
linear-diinking hi-fi jackass stay
away from this film, it will confuse
you and you'll be upset.
Quote #2: "Y' know, feedback' s okay and everything, but that
was, I dunno, just hke, too much!"
Okay, I'll read it again slowly: 1991:
The Year Punk Broke. Featuring
SONIC YOUTH. What part of
SONIC YOUTH don't you under-
Rory Tait
The Evaporators
3 Day Stubble
Sunday, April 11
Swell Party Venue
I've seen The Evaporators 5 or 6
times and I' veal ways enjoyed them,
but this was their best performance
yet. Unfortunately, for the fashion-
minded who were not in attendance,
I'm afraid I was too in awe of the
band to get an accurate description
of their space suits.
The band members, however,
now that's a different story.... I keep
expecting to find the drummer slov-
enly drunk and on speed or
something at some decadent party
cause he gets more Keith Moonesque
by the second; and if Dave wasn't
such a wicked guitar player I'd want
him to shut up for a second so I could
hear that grungy bass, as fed through
a Marshall 2-12 combo, a little better—what a sound. I heard a few
moans of jealousy as Dave was able
to cop, note-for-note, on the spot,
the keyboard solo played by an audience member Uiat Nardwuar, die
best frontperson in Vancouver, had
plucked from the audience. Every
word Uiat Nardwuar sang/yelled was
completely intelligible and totally
hilarious. I'm sure glad the
soundperson made no effort to turn
down Uie overblown and slightly
feeding back vocals cause they sure
added to the overall sonic mayhem.
My 18-year old half-broUier from
Dawson Creek actually diought die
Evaporators sounded like Ministry
at times (!?!) and was totally im-
heard of 3 Day Stubble, fortunately
I get lucky now and then... The
vocalist reminded me a bit of Pere
Ubu while the music was like Captain Beefheart on a happy-go-lucky
day. I don't normally notice haircuts
but die singer had an over-exaggerated Elvis wave Uiat was a most
effective mood setter. I don't diink
I've ever seen a smaller set before
eidier. Perhaps it came from die
Sears-Roebuck catalogue. At one
point one of Uie guitar players gave
a most enUiusiastic member of die
audience a big wet kiss—for some
reason I'd like to Uiink they were
strangers. £
3 Day Stubble is Uie type of
band I always wanted to play our
parties in Prince George, thankfully
my brother bought me their CD for
my birthday! It has this weird comic
Uiat alludes to a song I remember
them playing where the singer kept
saying "don't eat poo." I think there J
was an environmental message in
mere somewhere; nice to hear it so
metaphorically disguised. The CD
also reflects their really warm and
live basement sound. Overall, I think
the band enjoyed a highly interested
and entertained audience, even
though some probably thought 3 Day ®
Stubble were too goofy or weird and
left. For some reasonlUiink that this
band, wim its quirky/catchy tunes
may prove to be a lot more successful than one wouldthink. TroutMask
Replica now costs at least 20 times
more than Rock 'n' Roll Love Letter   ,*>,
Evan Symons
Vanilla Trainwreck
Bum
Thorsen
Saturday, April 17 ^
Nappy Dugout
It only took a good word from
Nardwuar to get me down to the
Dugout early enough to catch
Thorsen, although I wasn't too sure
I really wanted to catch some
"nordic-metal." The trio was already
mid-set when I showed up at the 'B>
early hour of 9:15 and, lo and behold, David Carswell of Smugglers
fame was leading the band through
a set of rollicking tales of fjords and
Uie Uke. A lark perhaps, but nice
I skipped Playhou
of nourishment and timed my re
closetoBum's set. Wow. I only own
afew of Bum's singles including the
newest 77ie Bum Go Crazy but this
was enough to let me imagine what
fun lay ahead in seeing 'em hve.
Bumhitthestageand, "click,"
in went my earplugs. These Victoria rg
ladsborrowthe absolute best chords,
harmonies androckstar-ish "moves"
of Uie 70's and turn it into something
fresh and exciting; and here's the
clincher... wiUiout non-pretention!
See Kev wear his bass slung low.
Watch Rob whirl and dive with his
axe. Admire Andrew's muscles W
(ahem, I did). Hear Graham keep
that beat steady. Listen to the dummy
holler for "Pool Hall Richard" (me
groups latest cool cover version).
Bum are capital "P" Pop and small
"p" punk which suits me fine. Their
first full-lengdi disc will be coming ^
out on Popllama shortly. Grab it.
I bumped into members of
Vanilla Trainwreck (added to Uie
bill meredays before the show) early
in the evening—they watched my
bike while I ran in and paid. We
began talking and I quizzed Uiem
about their music since I knew nom- 9
ing about the band. The new
recording Sounding To Try Like You,
is dieir second release. They were
really nice and die lead singer, Greg,
was most pleasant: although a tad
rough looking with his big black
eye. However, the oddest Uiing hap- ^
pened: after Bum's set everybody ™
left! A total of eleven people stayed
to see Vanilla Trainwreck.
AlUiough I wasn't familiar with their sound, the set held my
attention. Great noisy, yet control-
™ led, guitar throughout; hypnotic
lyrics; wounded, honest vocals. The
fact Uiat Greg was singing directly
to me for a few tunes added to Uie
intimacy ofthe surroundings. Since
I bought their CD (cheap) at the
show I can now figure out what he
0        was saying. A tight band, glad I
King I
Hammerbox
Monday, April 19
Graceland
I arrived at Graceland all gung-ho
and sentimental, fondly remembering the intimate King Missile show
of two years ago when the same
four, kooky New York boys played
to thirteen dis- interested booze-
hounds at 86 St;
sadly, this night's
show was disappointing. First off,
late
Tins is die first show that I've
seen at Uus venue (enter from alley
across die street from Uie Luv-a-
fair) and there will be more. 8 bucks
*9 admission is a bit steep for some
(how about6forstudents?)but what
a great time to be under 19inthebig
city...loads of all-ages gigs.
Mrs. Beemans
Hammerbox, the
openers, will just
have tosuffer Mike
Leduc'scausticre-
view: "Their songs
were forgettable
and Uie sound was
shit."Surelythings
would improve...?
From a King Missile perspective it
must have been disheartening to play
to a dozey, scanty
crowd in depress-
land. Even vocalist
JohnHall'ssnappy
witticisms and flailing, geeky, Anthony Michael Hall (a relative?)
dances couldn't lessen die gloom.
King Missile's songs are brilhant,
angst-ridden, satirical prose poems
set to music, when you can hear die
words that is. But this night, because
of shitty acoustics or a negligent
soundperson, the lyrics were indecipherable.
Some moments of joy shone
through tlie murk, though, when Hall
appropriately tangled himself up in
mike wire while crooning about
bondage in "Take Me Home and Tie
Me Up" and when guitarist David
Rick launched into a finger-numbing solo for ten impressive minutes.
Of course "Detachable Penis," King
Missile's most commercially successful and overrated single to date,
aroused the hstiess audience somewhat and die band played a smattering of pop faves from records past
including a delightful rendition of
"Gary and Melissa" off Uie Mystical
Shit album for Uie diehard fans.
The mood, having shifted mid-
set, welcomed the band back for
three encores with covers of
"Rockaway Beach" and the
Buzzcocks' "What Do I Get?" But
the absolute highlight amidst die
fuzz had to be Hall screaming about
his childhood trauma of finding
"doody" (that's pooh for all you
adults) in his cherished "sandbox"
song off of Way to Salvation. It
reminded me again of howextremely
sliitty Uie sound is in Uie boxy, cavernous Graceland. As the sticker on
Chris Xefos' keyboards states:
"Don't Put Off Joy";someUiing must
be done eidier about remedying die
acoustics in Graceland or forcing
die soundperson to do their job.
un-punk rock girl
Mr. T Experience
Tuesday, April 20
Commodore Ballroom
Goddammit! What is die point of
this disgusting Cruel Disco night? I
can't diink of anytiiing that turns my
stomach more man to see a great
band bke San Francisco's Mr. T
Experience forced on stage at 9:30
PM so as not to disturb Uie multitudes of disco dancers showing up
later in Uie evening! Kudos to Cruel
Elephant main man, Paul Moes, for
at least giving MTX the chance to
play but, SHIT, how bloody embarrassing! There is probably nothing
worse for a band than to be on Uie
other side of Uiose huge video screens
as they slowly rise to reveal uie
massive empty space that is Uie Commodore's dance floor.
Luckily, it didn't turn out that
ugly. MTX fans did come out, and
did manage to fill die first quarter of
the floor, bobbing and shaking to all
of MTX's punk rock hits, past and
present. Of course it was not to last,
for once 45 minutes had elapsed die
bozo stage manager quickly hauled
diem off stage and signalled die beginning of the goddamn disco, even
though all of us on the floor were
screaming and stomping for more
rock. But die massive sheep herd
dressed in bells and leisures man
aged to out number us about ten to
one, so we made our way into die
night cursing die lemming mentality of the common Vancouverite.
cursing the Commodore for their
"$3.50 beer special" (down from
$5), and praising the Mr. T Experience for sliining dirough again on
what must lie their 10th or 11 th time
to diis Cruel Disco town.
Grant Lawrence
Negativland
Thee Crusaders
Thursday, April 22
Despite Uie alarming cost of admis
sion ($17.75 including taxes and
service/scalper charges) a sizable
crowd showed up for this show, and
I Uiink most of them felt they got
their money's worth. However, there
was one rip-off: I tried out Uie new
CD jukebox (I punched in U2's
"Even Better Than The Real Thing")
and no sound!!! How is one supposed to indulge in silly irony
anymore?
Thee Crusaders were a brilliant choice to open diis show. This
time the band looked much more
confident with Uie stage and sounded
clear and warm, unlike the few times
I've seen diem before when their
burpy style seemed to throw Uie
soundman for a loop. When one
audience member heckled with
"God'll strike you down for mocking die name of the Lord!" Carl
(they introduced themselves, y'
know) simply conceded "You've got
a valid point!" and die band played
Negativland started off widi a
screening of "Soapy" the talking
cake of soap anil moved on to a
memorial and ta|vd message from
Dick Vaughn, die "late" President
ofthe Moribund Music Foundation.
A few tracks from previous albums
were performed almost verbatim
wliile one member manipulates the
diree cart machines with tapes of
Kasey Kasem, Greg Ginn and found
snippets of media idiocy, anodier on
guitar and keyboard, anil the tlurd
handling guilar. bass, clarinet, a ('I)
player, sampler and various toys.
A good chunk of die performance centred around the U2 album
and SST controversy bul unfortunately didn't provide a whole lot of
WITH GUESTS MECCA NORMAL
FRIDAY HAY 7 • PLAZA OF NATIONS
il   f     f il_^*_T"^     __*_L_J_^N1_I/    TT^L   DOORS 7PM-SHOW 8PM.TICKETS: $7(incl.GST/S.C.)AVAILABLEAT
ill  I   #■*■ Cj _ti_j   \MIJyy   CiTR tracmuuj^^
new material around Uie subject (although I'm sure they're all sick to
death of Uiat stuff). One shining
moment was a taped telephone
sound-bite of Greg Ginn spewing
his mouth off about how Negativland
had "better get a fuckin' lawyer"
while the band jammed to Black
Flag's "Gimme Gimme Gimme" on
the CD player.
The high point was a performance of "Perfect Scrambled Eggs,"
complete with chef hats, butler, milk
and a dozen eggs, some of which
were thrown to the audience as souvenirs. Perfect scrambled eggs always go well with toast, so toasters
were convenientiy available on both
sides ofthe stage. Mark Hosier then
proceeded to chuck slices of bread
into Uie audience, saving four for die
toasters, before revving up a raucous version of "Christianity is Stupid," complete with strobe-light
crosses and toasters-cum-smoke
macules slowly turning Uie 100%
whole wheat slices into charcoal.
And what a refreslung change it wa.s
to gel home and take off my shirt
wluch, instead of smelling like nicotine, smelled like toast.
Rory Tait
Dinosaur Jr.
Some Velvet Sidewalk
The Spinanes
Sunday, April 25th
Commodore Ballroom
This night o' noise began with "surprise" special guests from Portland,
OR., The Spinanes. This duo (guitar/vocals; drums) basically played
their well-crafted, serious-toned
post-pop to an uninterested crowd.
By uie fourth song, however, uie
band  seemed to have won the
crowd's attention, evidenced by bobbing heads    about as good as a response from this town for any opening act on a triple bill.
Next, Some Velvet Sidewalk.
Tlus overly-hyped triosucked. Tlieir
start was rough, to say the least, and
slam me in "Airhead" if I'm wrong
but didn't their guitarist/vocalist get
Dinosaur Jr.'s bass player to finish
guitarduty in the set? It seems SVS's
guitarist/vocalist had problems singing and playing at the same time.
Not only Uiat but their songs did not
have one iota of originality as diey
covered the familiar territory of
Nortliwe-st-style typical punk. Yawn.
J. Mascis and Co. appeared on
stage around 10:45 and blasted Uie
eyelids of die crowd back immediately. Early gems like "Raisins" and
"Little Fury Tilings" bounced Uie
floor appropriately even though Uie
vocals were lost in a garbled sea of
guitar and Mascis' mumblings—
fondlyrenuniscentofwhen diey last
played in town. Dinosaur Jr.'s set
was basicall y a guitarfest of J' s wizardry in full glow. He was however
paying more attention to Uie audience this time by actually making
the effort to brush his hair out of his
eyes. Aldiough die show was goixl
and all (even newer songs from
Where You Been sounding stronger),
diere is no way diat it was worth Uie
$23 price sticker. Not many shows
Mofo
101.9 fM ALL TICKETMASTER OUTLETS OR CHARGE BY PHONE 280-4444.
MAY   Q VARIOUS ARTISTS
Freedom of Choice
(Caroline)
You young punx out there have it
sooo easy. Why, I remember when
we were youngsters we had to
support die scene by fluke. The only
zines we could get were die Stone
or Creem. And if we were lucky.
month old copy of NME, meaning
we had to sift dirough mentions of
crappy Brit pop bands like Bucks
Fizz or the Tourists or fuckin' I layzc
I-nlayzi just for Uie latest on Elvis
Costello or Ihe Clash. Buying any
albumUiat didn't sound mainstream
was hit or miss, leaving us widi
some real shoddy stuff like Bow
Wow Wow, Adam and die Ants,
Soft Cell and anyofahundredskinny
tie "new wave" bands. I .ucky for me
there were also groups like the
Pretenders, B-52's, and Devo who,
although they seem real goofy when
yoi 11 iste n to them these days, weened
me off of mainstream pop. Though
mast wound up choking on later
LPs, they had die:
of Uie Missing Persons, Human
League, and Go-Go's songs that just
don't cut it. However, die cause is
good and it's a kind of sweet pain
diat you get listening to these songs
and remembering Uie old days of die
Pogo, Devo gear and sideways
haircuts.
Mofo
BUTTHOLE SURFERS
Independent Worm Saloon
(Capitol)
Being a rock star sucks.
You crank out some tunes,
go on tour, do drugs and
groupies (gender neutral),
dien either fall off die face
of Uie earth or become a
bad joke: Mick Jagger, Phil
Collins, Cher....This plight
of die pop-icon has been
on my mind lately for two
reasons: I'm driving a bus
in AM st
■o (ch
Most of today's happening
bands grew up the same way (since
diey're my age) but diey actually
have die advantage of being able to
chestnuts. Freedom of Choice
collects these tunes done by artists
such as Sonic Youth, Redd Cross,
Superchunk, etc., in a benefit for
Planned Parendiood. Mast of die
covers are groovy enough, witii die
best being Das Damen's version of
the Pretender's "Tlie Wait" and
Mudhoney's "Pump It Up," but
there's alsoa lot of cheeze, like covers
30 E_p^____^g_3
rock or Shadow Stevens,
you decide), and The
Butdioles have released a
new album produced by
none other dian John Paul
Jones (Uiat's Led Zeppelin, kiddies).
The album is great, Uieir best
since Rembrandt Pussyhorse.
although the dementia is more
subtle. You can't say much more
about it without sounding like Terry
David Mulligan, so I won't bodier.
But what about the producer ?!! You
see, I've always been an advocate of
die view that we choose our own
path, carve our own destiny, forge
our own fate, extra crunchy or extra
smooth, pulpor pulp-free, dig? After
your world famous band breaks up.
you have a lot of options. Most stars
choose to hurt the music industry by
either staging a comeback,
promoting terrible bands, or both.
Jimmy Page chose to work with
goof from Whitesnake, Robert
Plant is off on some hippy trip, John
Bonham is still decaying and John
Paul Jones has chosen to work with
The Butthole Surfers. Proving Uiat
we don't all have to become out of
touch with absolutely everything as
we get older. Kind of gets me all
choked up inside.
Justin Love
TAR
Clincher
(Touch'n'Go)
The cover of Tar's Clincher EP
depicts the body of a beat up
aluminumguitar. This simple image,
, sums up die approach
of this Chicago foursome: straight-
ahead drums, bass, guitars and vocals
widi no-frills production lending a
very garage-ish feel to the album. If
anyUiing, Clincher is badly underproduced in some aspects. Nope,
nuthin' fancy here, folks.
The presence of lead guitar is
an almost negligible factor as all
seven tracks are dominated by
rhythmic and melodic bass lines,
tho' the melody is somewhat limited
in range and creativity (Uie down
side of "no-frills"). Consequentially,
die driving, insistent pace
r** sometimes becomes
merely plodding while the
vocals are totally buried in
die mix, rendering them
dim, vague and incoherent
(nol that I really mind
incoherence in itself—
witness early REM).
However, what I am able
to hear is flat and typical
shouting which seems to
t_,.v make an attempt at angst
BH but falls short of any real
B|^h| passion, failing to elevate
^a_u_fi,.'' m's hunk o' vinyl above
■ . Uie mundane. 1 guess what
really bugs me about Uiis album is
Uiat Uie Uiing which could have
rescued it is the very uiing which
kills it.
I actually approached Clincher
with a very positive mind set, as I
had heard some encouraging words
about it, all to no avail. This EP is not
total crap, there's just noUiing terribly
interesting about it. And don't say I
didn't give it a chance, I played it
more Uian a few times in Uie hope it
might grow on me, but I just got
Jules D.
MULE
(1/4Stick/TouchnGo)
Who would've diought the year's
best back-porch/junkyard blues
album would come out of Miclugan?
Believe it cuz Jim, Keb and P-Bone
(ex-Laughing Hyenas and Wig,
respectively) knock around deep
South territory without leaving Bear
TrapStudios in the sticks of Detroit.
From the opening of "We left town
to Uie sound of buckshot rain falling
for our ass...don't think we're
welcome back there" ("Mississippi
Breaks"), these Motor City Mule-
sters live way past Uieir reputations
as original, authentic and impeccable
musicians by structuring an album
so far from the framework of their
prior bands Uiat all you can do is nip
from yer bottle o' hooch, whittle up
a new gun rack and wish that this
was available on 8-trackso you could
impress your friends when you take
die pick-up through town!
Paul L Brooks
STING
Ten Summoner's Tales
(A&M)
I know Sting doesn't really fall into
the alternative genre but any artist
who alienates Uieir original audience
is fine by me. Almost everyone
knows somediing about Uus guy and
how much he's changed over die
years and Ten Summoner's Tales is
yet anodier step for him: country-
twang, medieval lyrics and, of
course, pagan undertones (after all,
the tide is a wordplay of a Canterbury
Tales short). A few of Uie tracks are
a litde too country for me but uie
medieval stuff is great. However the
lyrics are the best: if they were versed
by someone else they'd be dorky
ballads. Thank god (or not, if you're
Sting) for diat.
Trip
LEATHERFACE
Mush
(Seed Records)
Swirling, raw-throated melodies
amidst gutsy, hard driving hard-core
riffing. Catchy, energetic, powerful
and totally inspirational from this
veteran band. Finally, Leatherface
should get die attention diey' ve been
deserved of for so long.
Tom Milne
fIREHOSE
Mr. Machinery Operator
(Columbia/Sony)
Well, as Uie big, rubber nipple-toting horse on Uie Ren and Stimpy
show says, "No, sir, I don't like it."
Maybe I made a poor judgement
choice induced by a lack of oxygen,
or somediing. Yes! That's the key! I
sat my ass on uie floor for too long,
sifting through the mile high pile of
yet to be reviewed music; die combination of dust particles, cold
cement and excessive exposures to
die microwave drove my brain into
a lediargic downward sway.
Visualize it.. .molasses dirough
a green sieve. It was this—diis evil
mental mould—Uiat lifted my arm,
bent my fingers and coaxed me into
picking up die new fIREHOSE CD.
What else could explain it? I' ve never
really listened to Uieir old stuff and
within a short amount of attentive
listening I realized I hated this. They
sound like the frigging Spin Doctors
but far more stupid. Needless to siy,
I hate Uie Spin Doctors too. Yes, my
words are harsh but fIREHOSE just
aren't my thing (whatever that
means). Nope, not even remotely.
Any positive aspects to Uiis
horrific listening experience you
ask? Yeah, I don't have to search for
Teresa's birthday gift now.
Emma Lauder
ROBYN HITCHCOCK AND
THE EGYPTIANS
Respect
(A&M)
# Whether he's on his solo trip
i or with the Egyptians,
A Hitchcock's career, as long as
*M it has been, is rife with critical
^fl acclaim and relative
,■ unsuccess. Well, music fans,
^H here'sthescoop..J?e.s/>ec'isa
V dud. There really isn't
®^ anything here Uiat a Hitchcock
.: " fan should be encouraged to
« blow his or her hard earned
dough on. This is one of those
recordings that is pretty good
the first time you hear it, okay
die next, and the third time
you' re about to put somediing
else on when you realize Uiat Uiis
disc is already on but you' ve blotted
it out of your mind.
I've always liked Hitchcock's
folky psychedelic-rock leanings but
there comes a time to admit that
even someone as talented as Robyn
Hitchcock can put out a boring
album. Enough said.
Norm van Rassel
Bone Club
Beautiflu
(Imago/BMG)
When I first heard of Bone Oub I
imagined some L.A. glam-rockers,
with temporary tattoos, clip-on
earrings and enough chest hair to
stuff a mattress. You know, Uie kind
of guys who put Z's where S 's really
belong, (i.e. Bad Boyz, Sewer Ratz
etc.).... However, the 6-song
Beautiflu EP provided a pleasant
surprise.
This straight-ahead rock album
is chock-full of infectious guitar and
laced with some cool, fresh, pop
hooks. Lead crooner Andrew
Arashiba belts out some raw,
animalistic lyrics and, with Uie aid
of liis brodier Dacey (guitars/vocals),
die album also
ns some unique
harmony andsuper-catchy melodies.
Coming out of Minnesota, fhehome-
state to great American rockers Soul
Asylum, some comparison is
inevitable. But while a definite
influence exists, Bone Club is by no
means a weak Soul Asylum copy.
Bone Club manage to carve out a
distinct identity while
simultaneouslyremaining truetodie
hard rock format. Definitely worth
adding to your collection, some silly,
unnecessary guitar solos
notwithstanding.
Sean Casey
SWIRLIES
BlondertongueAudiobaton
(Taang!)
Almast eight months ago I picked
up die Swirlies' first Taang! EP,
What To Do About Them?, a
collection of songs diat originally
appeared on obscure east-coast
seven-inches. At die time, I did the
double-take when reviewers across
die globe popped their copy into uie
tape deck and declared, "Does this
sound hke My Bloody Valentine, or ^
what?" ■
On reflection, their new release
BlondertongueAudiobaton doesn't
stray far from the MBV-disciplepaUi
established in their first outing.
Snippets of lo-fi noise are pasted
between songs and some of the
guitar-wash and unintelligible.^,
female vocals have given way to
more abrasive sonic experiments,
but the basic framework of mid-
AUantic shoegazemess remains. If
it wasn't for Uie Swirlies' well-
defined talents in Uie world of
songwriting I'dhaveto writeoff this
bandasasuper-hip version of carbon'»
paper. Happily, Uieir devotion to
MBV mixed with their own talent-
is a springboard to new pleasures.
Worth checking out.
Rory Tait
VARIOUS ARTISTS _
Pay It All Back, Volume 4
(ON-U Sound Records)
For a litde while there it looked like
ON-U had bitten the proverbial
bullet. Apparently, thankfully, not.
As an independent label, ON-U
ideology: surviving trends and
providing its artists with a creative
outlet, all of which benefits we Uie
listeners.
Vol. 4 of the Pay It All Back
series presents us with a funkier
sound uian previous releases. Yes,
even the former Annie Anxiety, 1%
listed here as LiMle Annie, get-
soulful widi "Bless Those." There
are five Strange Parcels cuts
featuring, among others, Bernard
Fowler, Bim Sherman and Jesse Rae
on vocals. Last Poet Jalal's
"Mankind" takes up where Gary
Clail left off on earlier releases, and ™
for those who crave that Tackhead
sound there is Doug Wimbish and
Skip McDonald's "Stop The Clock
Part 2."
Dub/reggae aficionados get
two cuts from Uie forthcoming Dub
Syndicate release, Echomania, and /»
an excellent "Don't Betray Me" by
the Twinkle Brothers and the
Trebunia Family Band. Polish dub,
possibly the highlight of Uiis release
(one man's opinion anyway). And
what would an ON-U release be
without uie Adrian Sherwood touch?
It wouldn't. Sherwood lifts all diese %
cuts out of die ordinary with his
brand of original mixing and top-
notch production.
My favourite Pay It All Back is
still uie CD/cassette version of Vol.
2, its diversity and originality is hard
to beat. VoL 4, however, serves up
an entertainingly imposing platter
for us to feast on.
Norm van Rassel
MORTIFICATION
Scrolls ofthe Megilloth
(Nuclear Blast)
—Is Uiis grindcore or death metal?   *■
—Does he really sing Uiat way or is
there some vocal manipulation happening here?
—Do they really  know  what
"lymphosarcuma" is?
—Do you really sit down and write
this stuff or is it "inspired"? f ,
—Can anyone listen to more man 20
minutes of Uus stuff?
—Do Uiey really go to church?
The Reverend Norman SUPERCHARGER
Goes Way Out!
(Estrus)
Whoa
Her
Supercharger's second LP! More
high-end, lo-fi, low budget shit-rock
for everybody concerned with rock
'n' roll. The amusing theme to Uiis
sci-fi packis Supercharger have gone
m Way Out to another planet and have
come back to attack earth wiUi then-
steel pot helmets, ray guns, and punk
a blitz it
I
, folks.
Supercharger, in die fi ne tradition of
the Sonics, the Ramones, the
Mummies and a spare few others,
W have die gift of rock and roll: Uie
talent to write a simple, yet catchy,
melodic song with a good beat and
the know how to rock it. This
embarrasses all that is passed of as
rock and roll these days, concluding
that most have forgotten what
Supercharger do so prominently...
'     namely die tliree e's of rock and roll:
Grant Lawrence
HAMMERBOX
Numb
(A&M)
■ Haminerbox's new album just plain
kicks! The combination of heavy,
dirashy rock with a small pop and
tiny '70's infusion is refreshing to
hear. Not many bands can pull of
dus without losing their heavy edge,
overstepping their talents,  or
gm   sounding dangerously unoriginal.
Hammerbox's strong point is
"Your column is die first thing I read
in Discorder (after die firsl 26
pages!)."
- Jurgen, fan from Van.
^ Thankyouforallofdieletters.faxes,
and perishables Uiat you' ve sent me,
once again, die sheer quantity of die
response is overwhelming. Greet-
uigs to Sara in P.G., Timbo in Everett,
USA, the mysterious Kathryn, and
all you odiers!
For starters, I've got to tell you
*9 a couple of tilings about diis whole
trash record tiling. It's pretty much a
given diat I amnot tlie first to archive
die low points in vinyl—there are a
lot of you out diere with dus weird
aberration as well! Of course there's
the excellent Dr. Demento compilations out there (I forget Uie label they
" are on but this cat has done a radio
show in California for, oh, about a
coupleof centuries, spotlightingnov-
elty tunes and responsible for discovering Weird Al Yankovic and
Barnes & Barnes ("Fish Heads"))
and Rliino Records (despite the very
0, unfun Have A Nice Day series), who
have put out the great GoldenThroats
compilations (celebrity song
•stylmgs"), the World's Worst
Records series, of which I have Volume 1 (with the Nova's "The
Crusher," Edidi Massey's "Big Girls
Don't Cry" and a big pile of odiers),
•• and very groovy videos. But on the
Carrie Akre's intensely fat vocal
delivery— she sings way too good
for the type of music Hammerbox
plays, which is one of the major
reasons they sound so unique. Most
bands in thrashville seem to forget
about good vocals in their search for
ultimate angst, and we usually suffer
for it. Of course, die rest of die band
drives the album home by
pummelling you with fiery fast
playing, llus albumhasnodud songs
or pointless demo filler, which is a
rare dung Uiese days.
Mofo
HUNGRY CROCODILES
6,000,000 Horsepower
(Swamptown Records)
I'm well aware that those urges
you're having are hard to resist but
you must try! I know the temptation
is great and is slowly smothering
you Uke basset hound kisses. Do
assume that you do not want to hear
local front, there was The Fifty Cent
Record Hour, compiled and hosted
by Bill Baker, Hootenanny Scott, and
Valerie about four years ago. This
was before my arrival here in the land
where die rich preach revolution, and
I, for one, am mighty sad to have
missed it.
But with the demise of vinyl I
strongly advise you to take good care
of yer cheeze pile and convert it to
tape AS AP so you don' t wear die LPs
out. Not to say Uiat they'll be worth
anything in the future, but once
they're gone, diey're gone!
This montii, because I have received a sizeable amount of tapes
from you readers, I can get you
schmucks, I mean fans, to do the
legwork for me! Seriously, thanx
piles, this month's supply of ink was
fully supplied by you! Tapes are on
the way! ALL of die following are
top pix and carry a Cheezometer
Rating of 100!
The first one comes from Chuck
P., Radio Promo God from Caroline
Records in NYC, a to wn above and to
the right of Baltimore, who graces us
Will Success Spoil Mrs. Miller? and
Greatest Hits — Mrs. Miller (label?)
Apparently Mrs. Miller is Uus 60
year old woman from New York who
Uie Hungry Crocodiles just
because they hail from
cheetah central. This is not
the 1993 answer to
Badmotorfingercx Ten; these
guys are refreshing Uke a
beach breeze and have arrived
just in time to cure me of my
premature mid-lifecrisis. For
some reason the Hungry
Crocodiles' music makes me
feel young, proving that I
don't have to grow upanyti me
soon, and inthe horrible event
that I dofindawrinkleorstart
to feel aged I can just turn this
on and kiss my conscience goodbye.
After all, who in their right mind
knows what their major should be?
It's absolutely impossible to
listen to 6,000,000 Horsepower and
sit still—I even chew food to it!
They conglomerate funk, rap, rasta
and rock, you heard it here first, into
a screaming barrel of adrenaline
monkeys. I'll bet diese guys were
real handfuls as children. They
probably wore through sneakers
really fast, ate widi dieir mouths
open and put dissected frog bits in
the teacher's desk. If dieir mothers
hear diis CD, even diey'U be proud.
Immaturity shall make us
immortal.
Emma Lauder
WOOL
Buds pawn
(External)
Heavily Nirvana-inspired, this disc
manages to reach back into grunge
made a couple of LPs covering die
hits of die sixties in sort of an operatic
style. I have no doubt Uiis woman
was serious as cancer about doing
these songsthisway—easilythemost
excruciating tiling I have heard since
The Odd Couple Sings. Her voice can
literally increase your blood pressure
Favorites on ...Success... are
"YellowSubmarine," "Moon River,"
and "A Groovy Kind of Love." Bright
spots on Greatest Hits include
"Downtown," "Hard Day's Night"
(yow!), and "These Boots Were Made
For Walking" (super yow!). I can't
tell you what die covers look like but,
you can be certain, if it says Mrs.
Miller, it says quality!
The next one comes from Bill
Baker, mentioned earlier, now
planted in-firmly in Toronto:
The Best of The Fifty Cent Record
Hour — Various Artists (indie)
These cats beat me out on die compilation Uiing by a full six years! There
are 23 nuggets on this tape, ranging
from Clint Eastwood and Lee Marvin
doing "Best Things" from the movie
Paint Your Wagon, to "The Number
7 Theme Song" (mentioned here by
Ethan Minovitz in Uie March issue).
Horrifyingly similar to my samplers
(reminding meof similarities between
Huey Lewis' "I Want A New Drug"
roots while maintaining a heavy yet
commercially viable sound.
Anthemic pounding rock 'n' roll
that's being (and has been) done to
death, but these guys do it well
enough to add a few quite memorable
songs to an already long Ust.
Tom Milne
BAD MANNERS
Fat Sound
(Triple X Records)
Bad Manners are a great party band.
They've been around for years
preaching ska to punks, preppies
and anyone else who would prick up
on their sounds. Alas, dieir studio
output hasn't really been able to
capture Uieir live energy, (Uien again
: of many a band). So watta
yagu
.ado!?
BUY
DIRECT
Importer-
to-You
il ACCORDIONS! SAVE_T° V2
IVE UP TO 50% OFF RETAIL PRICES
} rrom'^_?d,aCS?_rat0Deale?i' S-Dmy
As stated by head B M, Buster
Bloodvessal, "die idea for die album
was to make a commercial sound
out of die musicwe love." Well, that
■ diey have succeeded in doing. Kind
of like latter day UB40, there are
some  cuts here that go beyond
bubblegumishly insipid—listen lo
B.M.'s version of "Stop Making
Love Beside Me" and you'll get the
drift. Also included are some horrible
versions of already horrendous tunes
like "Teenager In Love" and "The
First Cut Is The Deepest."
All is not lost though, there is
some good ska here that will have
you tapping at least half of your toes.
"Mambo/ska #8" and "Skinhead
Love Affair" are okay as are "Voices
and Ray Parker Jr.'s ■■Ghostbusters"),
it is a party tape supreme! If you can
find this gem you are one of die elite.
From a person who left me a
tape, known only as Kathryn (your
tape will be left in die office, should
you decide to get it):
Various 7Ss/South Pacific Hits —
Various Artists
Katliryn gave tue a great home tape
of the strangest '78s I've heard.
They're well preserved for records
Foxtrot label. Included are two
ukelele songs, die hilarious "What?
No Women?" by Tlie Happiness
Boys, and die classic "I Scream, You
Scream, We All Scream For Ice
Cream" by Waring's Perulsyl vanians
(I have never ever heard d i is on record
before). She wa.s good enough to
supply label info, as well.
The South Sea's stuff is pretty
groovy, too, witii more ukeleles (I
sense a fetish here, Kadiryn) than
you can shake a stick at. Looks like
I'll now have to keep my glossies
open for 78s as well m my search for
Finally, from Saskatchewan,
where you can watch your dog run
away from you for days, come a
couple of celebrity nuggets courtesy
of Regina promoter Pete Jelinski:
Greene (label?)
Not much label info supplied but this LP actually
"**l    sounds like a live jamdown
i J    between Pop, Hoss, Little
{    Joe and Adam 'round die
j    bean pot. An inspiring se-
|    lection of traditional upbeat
songs like "Tlie Haugin'
In Your Head" and "Pig Bad."
Bloodvessal and co. know their stuff
but they try too hard at times, and on
Uiis outing that's Uieir downfall.
Throwthis disc on at a party, exclude
Uie duds, and someone's sure to
work up a sweat, but you won' t have
to worry about anyone suffering an
Norm van Rassel
THE NEW BOMB TURKS
UDestroy-Oh-Boyl!
(Crypt)
Columbus, Ohio's first-rate New
Bomb Turks have served up 14
highly-explosive punk-rock shit
stompers that will knock you down
and knock you out. No joke. Holy
smokes, does Uiis one rip! This record
is definitely one ofthe loudest, full-
out rock V roll assaults I've ever
had die pain/pleasure to listen to.
These four deranged fucks have
managed to blend die psychobilly
[►.I i\ lings of Gas Huffer and the
Reverend Horton Ileal, packed with
a power-punch in the vein of groups
hke Mudhoney and the Didjits. So
watch out all of you rock V roll
disciples, these guys may turn out to
Grant Lawrence
SILVERFISH
Organ Fan
(Chaos/Columbia)
Leslie Ranikine has got a cool voice
and I remembered that she was lea-
tured on the last Pigface album, tiius
I gave Organ Fim a listen. Her voice
is still as cool and primal as ever, but
her back-up music, well...sucks—
with the possible exception of
"Vitriole," none of die songs are
memorable. I don't think Uie members of Silverfish have really
mastered die art of harsh thrash,
what with all die songs kinda sounding the same. Oh, wait, isn't that the
art of really harsh thrash? My mistake.
They've got potential, those
Camden. Englandheavy metal types,
I just think they'd sound better with
a more distinct, perhaps more regional, or more gritty sound. Maybe
if they were grunge or industrial....
The drummer is good but, hey, a
band can't be based on voice and
percussion alone. (Actually, I Uiink
some can but not Siverfish.) Wim
more variety in the guitar riffs or a
better producer Silverfish will go
far. They can get a huge following if
Trip
Blues," "Careless Love," and, oddly
enough, "Bonanza" and "Ponderosa!"
Imagine Uiat. Pete's copy is crystal
clear so I figure he purloined it from
die parent's record collection. Ifyou
find this, expect Dan Blocker,
Michael Landon and Peniell Roberts to shareequal vocal time widi die
ol' Voice of Doom!
Telly — Telly Savalas (MCA)
This is but one of two LPs put out by
diis Hollywood sports bar owner/
bartender. Big, meaty fistfuls of old
lounge standards are put through die
ringer via Telly's massive, one octave range. Listen to "If," "You and
Me Agauist die World," or "Help Me
Make It Tlirough Hie Night" for a
true grasp of die lack of any emotion
whatsoever in Telly's delivery! Producer is none other dian Snuff Garrett
of 50 Guitars Go To Hawaii fame,
which explains a lot. For the disco
side of Telly check out "Who Loves
You Baby." The sheer lack of talent
on this album propels it to The
Psychsonic Hall o' Shame!!
That's all for now, kiddies! Keep
those letters coming, don't forget
about die psamplers mentioned last
montii (plug, plug) and be vigilant in
your quest for way out vinyl!! Oop,
gotta go. I'm taking the girlfriend fo
see Bad Lieutenant1.
© 33 GAS HUFFER
34 MYSTERY MACHINE
35 SWIRLIES
36 BETTIE SERVEERT
37 COP SHOOT COP
38 MEDICINE
39 VARIOUS
40 BUSH & POP
41 WICKED SWIMMING DOG
42 MIGHTY MIGHTY BOSSTONES
43 BRADY BUNCH
44 GREEN JELLO
45 REZILLOS
46 KRONOS QUARTET
47 ROOTS ROUND-UP
48 SEAM
40 THE GITS
50 BAD MANNERS	
CLINCHER TOUCH &
INTEGRITY. TECHNOLOGY. SERVICE El
GLAZED
BLONDERTONGUE AUDIOBATON
PALOMINE
ASK QUESTIONS LATER
MEDICINE
THE BEAT GENERATION
FRIDAY  NIGHT  IS  KILLING  M
FROM HERE TO YOUR GARDEN
SKA-CORE
ITS A SUNSHINE DAY
CEREAL KILLER
THE (ALMOST) COMPLETE REZILLOS
SHORT STORIES ELEKTRA
SYZYGY GROUND-UP
KERNAL TOUCH & GO
FRENCHING THE BULL C/Z
FAT SOUND TRIPLE  X
TAANG!
MATADOR
INTERSCOPE
CREATIVITY
RHINO
SIRE
COMPRESSION
MERCURY
MCA
IMY93SJIEW
MAY 93 SHORTIE GROOVES 35
MAY  93  LONG  GROOVES  50,
I WANNA BE YOUR LOVER
2 MADDER ROSE
3 JALE
4 THEE HEADCOATS
5 SHEEP ON DRUGS
6 SMUGGLERS
7 SNEETCHES
8 STEEL WOOL
0 STUMPY     JOE
10 EVAPORATORS
11 FRAMPTON BROS
12 PENELOPE HOUSTON
13DQE
14 TREEHOUSE
SUPERSNAZZ
YOUR DISCIPLE
I WANNA SLEEP IN YOUR Af
I LIED/TWISTED
LOUIS RIEL
MOTORBIKE/MARY JANE
IN GERMANY
AND IM THINKING
BROOM SAUCE
I SEED
CINNAMONTOAST
NARDWUAR
SMASH
SCREAMINGAPPLE
BUS STOP
EMPTY
WELCOME BACK TOP DRAWER PRESENTS
WELCOME TO MY CASTLE NARDWUAR
LIKE AN OLIVER STONE BOGUS
GLAD IMA GIRL ILOW
MASTURBATIONMADEAMESSOFME     FEELGOOD
AUGUST 6TH/DAYS THAT NEVER WERE        BLATANT
LUCKY
SUBPOP
LUCKY
RAINFOREST
SUBPOP
GEEKMO
SCHEMING INTELLIGENTSIA
RED ROCKET
SLOTH
CRACKPOT
CHER DOLL
DEF AMERICAN
ESTRUS
1/4 STICK
1 WINDWALKER
2 HONEY
3 MEET DAISY
4 STRAIN
5 SURFDUSTERS
6 THE MYSTERONS
7 DEPROGRAMMERS
8 BLAISE PASCAL
» FIELD DAY
0 LOTUS EATERS
1 ROCKIN ROD & THE STRYCHNINES
2 THE COMA TOAST
3 THE STOATERS
4 HORSEY
7 VINIAGRETTES
S ELEPHANTS CHILD
• MOVIELAND
1  PAISLEY SUITCASE
3 SHE
24 PEANUT GALLERY
25 GOATBOY
27 THE MANY
28 HEADSLAVE
29 DARKEST OF THE HILLSIDE THICKETS
30 NAKED VIBE
31 ASHES
32 HAYMAKERS
33 SICKO
34 GOOD COOKIES
35 PHIL SMITH
"BLACKBIRD*
■PILLOW KNIVES*
■GO GO ROUND"
■CATARACT*
"HEADLESS BATALLION"
■BEACH BALLS"
"WASH YOUR BRAIN-
■SPOTLIGHT KID"
•PET'
•GOD'
'GODZILLA'
•BLIND AGAIN'
'EDGE OFTHE WORLD'
'GO LIGHT
'BEACH LIFE'
'WHAT'S YOUR NAME'
•I WAS SAVED'
'MINE'
'CAKE'
•RHUBARB'
'STAND AND FIGHT1
•LOOK ATYOURSELF PLEASE'
'30 SEC FIX'
'KINDLING'
'SEX BISHOP'
'DIGGIN UP YHE WORLD'
TO THE LIGHT'
'ROOFTOP'
'CHURCH ACROSS THE ROAD'
'FBSONG'
'SWERVE-
'YEAR Of TEMPTATION'
DOYOU REMEMBER ROCK'N'ROLLRADIO?
DISCORDER CHARTS 10 YEARS AGO.*
1 PHIL SMITH
2 DEAD KENNEDYS
3 THE MEMBERS
4 THE BIRTHDAY PARTY
5 ECHO & THE BUNNEYMEN
6 U2
7 RANK & RLE
8 RAMONES
9 WALL OF VOODOO
iO BLACK UHURU
THE PHIL SMITH Al
PLASTIC SURGERY DISASTERS
UPRHYTHM, DOWNBEAT
THE BAD SEI
PORCUPINE
WAR
SUNDOWN
SUBTERRANEAN  JUNGLE
CALL OF THE WEST
THE DUB FACTOR
32___p-__2
DIALIN' FOU CELEBR1T11
Kevin's Dream Date with Excubus — A Winner Succumbs
As 1 leafed through the piles of entries, a dirty envelope reared its ugly head. Upon opening the letter a warmth surged
my body like urinating in a wet suit while surfing. The letter read: "Dear Excubus, I have never won anything,
1 will give you special tilings." My heart almost exploded through my trousers. Ihad a winner. I called the lucky wii
up and arranged a date for Sunday afternoon... with Kevin!
Kevin and I met at Uie Broadway Skytrain station where we then trained to Columbia and took a bus tc
1 oi lg heed Mall. We chose the International House of Pancakes across the road as a dining destination. I ordered 2eggs,
2 pancakes, 2 sausages and coffee (just like Denny's) and Kevin ordered blueberry pancakes which he doused in
strawberry syrup. "Tastes like hp gloss," he murmured between mouthfuls.
Kevin says he had fun with me. I'm not so.
ie I had fun—the chafing on my wrists and
ankles hasn't gone away yet. Sorry there at
any pictures but some bastards ripped off my   |
amera gear last month, lousy pricks.
So, boys and girls, that's it for now, Excubus is
moving. But thanks to the wonder of fax machines
my name may yet grace the pages of this fine
publication. So, in closing, a few truisms to
ponder... Bum are the new sweethearts of      .
college radio, Doomklaxuen aren't retro...     -A.  ,
theyneverleft.Ilikemyeggspoached,Henry  $A  j
Rollins writes bad poetry and if you leave m
now you'll take away the biggest part of me
Goodnight, Kevin, thanks for the sa
outfit.
Love Excubus SAT 1 Wiidwalker witk Guy Smiley, Scrub aid
Tke Leather Uppers at Nappy Dugout (all ages)...
May Works Festival: Sparkmarker aid cub (2pm),
Community Dinner (6pm), May Day Uieeisored
Cabaret (Spn) at IWA Nail... Piciic AIDS Benefit (303 West Hastings)... Saturday Night Fever Cruel 70s Disco at tke Commodore... Eddie
Burks at tke Yale... Country Daice witk Tempus
Fi.it & Marian Rose at tke WISE Hall... May Day
Dance witk Tiddly Cove Morris & Sword, Vai-
coiver Morris Men at Trinkle Park... Water at
The Hungry Eye... Green Apple Qiickstep, Crunt,
Wayne Horvitz _ Pig Pen, Big Bamboo at tke
Offramp (Seattle)... Robyn Hitckcock fi tke
Egyptians at tke Backstage (Seattle)... Saturday Nigkt Fever (7pm) at Can's Schnitzel Palace... toy Arden's exhibition Colour Photographs at Contemporary Art Gallery (until tke
22nd)... Faye Hoffman's exhibition Tait at
Artimesia (until tke 15th)... Performances and
Readings by Adoiica, BBUNO, Sister Nadine,
Mark Poiser at Pitt Gallery...
SUN 2 Roy Baiiey at Vancouver East Cultural
Ceitre... open stage at tke WISE Hall... A.C.
leed at tke Yale... Scrub, Chromotose,
Ghostdaoce, Wyveri at the Offramp (Seattle)...
Robyi Hitchcock & tbe Egyptiaos at tbe Backstage (Seattle)... Tke Hustler and Colour of
Money at Can's Scbiitzel Palace... Performances aid Readiigs by Adoiica, BBUNO, Sister
Nadine, Mark Poiser at Pitt Gallery...
MON 3 CiTR PRESENTS EINSTURZENDE
NEUBAUTEN WITH MIRANDA SEX GARDEN AT THE
COMMODORE... A.C. Reed at the Yale... Living
Colour aid Bad Brails at 86 Street... Robyi
Hitchcock & the Egyptiais with Murray Attaway
at tke Towi Pump... Doog Deep & Book at Tke
Hungry Eye... Vodka Visiou, Sublime File, White
Male Guilt, Paydirt at the Offramp (Seattle)...
Sbaie at Gan's Scbiitzel Palace... Performances aid Readings by Adoiica, BBUNO, Sister
Nadiie, Mark Pouser at Pitt GaHery...
TUE 4 Lloyd Jones Struggle at tbe Yale...
Ronnie Brown at Scottish Cultural Ceitre... Cruel
Elepkait Cruet 71s Disco at the Commodore...
Disco Rules OK? at Tie Hungry Eye... Bomb,
B uzzo ven, .eke at tte Offramp (Seattle)... Owe
Upon a Time in tbe West at Can's Schnitzel
Palace... Mayworks Him & Video Festival: Work
the Body: Working tke Streets: Prostitutes
Speak Out, Set aid tbe Saadistas, Blue, Part
Safe Witt BiAna aid Bambi (7:30pm) aid Public
Enemies - Contested Domain: Dream Deceivers:
The Story Behind lames Vance vs. Judas Priest,
Bodies hi Troable, Sex Workers Take Back the
Night (S:30pm) at Pacific Eiiematteqae... Per-
formances aad Readings by Adonica, BBUNO,
Sister Nadine, Mark Poiser at Pitt Gallery...
WED S Uoyd Jones Straggle at tte Yale...
Fraser MacPherson Trio at Alma Street Cafe...
Folk Song Circle at Friends Meeting House (8886
Hudson)... Ahmed Hassan & Peggy Baker ia Salo
Dance at Vancouver East Cultural Centre... Heat
Miser, Carpe Diem at tte Hungry Eye... Squirt,
Village Green, Symoa Asher, Caterpillar Kiss at
the Offramp (Seattle)... Lenny aad Midnight
Cowboy at Can's Scbiitzel Palace... Double
Exposure at tbe Ridge... Mayworks Film t Video
Festival: Artful Dodging - Overcomiig Censor
ship: State of tke Art: Art of tke State?, Trie
Inversions, Drawing tke Lile (7:30pm) aid Aliens: From Here, From Tkis Side, Work ii Progress,
Tribulation 9) (9:30pm) at Pacific
Ciaematbeque... Performances aid Readiigs by
Adoiica, BBUNO, Sister Nadiie, Mark Poiser at
Pitt Callery...
THU 6 Sweet Jones aid hHead at tbe Pit Pub...
Zulu Revue with Bob's Yoir Uncle, Lug, Coal aid
Perfume Tree at Graceland... Young Saiits, Dancing oi Glass, Real Eyes at tbe Town Pimp... Lloyd
Jones Struggle at tbe Yale... Cassaidra Vasik at
Wild Pony... George McFetridge at Alma Street
Cafe... Maiie & Mitch at tbe WISE Hall... Great
White at tbe Commodore... Ahmed Hassan & Peggy
Baker ii Solo Dance at Vancouver East Cultural
Ceitre... Black Happy aid Rotorcloud at tke
Hungry Eye... Legendary Pink Dots, Diamond Fist
Werny, Nigel Greei MM Orchestra at the Offramp
(Seattle)... Beat Farmers with tbe Picketts at
tke Backstage (Seattle)... Drugstore Cowboy at
Can's Scbiitzel Palace... Double Exposure at
the Ridge... Mayworks Film & Video Festival:
CLASSic Confrontations: 29/92, Justice for Janitors, Family Fuel: A Coal Strike Story, Operatioo
Class War (7:30pm) aad Trading Places: Trade
Winds, Caterpillar Canada, Microchip al ckip,
Maboa Fights Back, laid Use (9:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque; Fiction, Fantasy _ Fragmentation video lecture at Video la... Performances
aad Readings by Adonica, BBUNO, Sister Nadine,
Mark Pouser at Pitt Callery...
FRI 7 CiTR PRESENTS FUGAZI WITH MECCA NORMAL AT PLAZA OF NATIONS (ALL AGES)... Sons af
Freedom witk Pare, 13 Engines and Rail TEC. at
tke Vogue (all ages)... low Pop Suicide, Legendary Pink Dots, Rose Chronicles, Eric's Trip at
Graceland... Jack Killed Jill with Elvis Love Child,
Itch aad Fracus at Nappy Ougout (all ages)...
Caustic Thought, For Christ's Sake, DSK, Chrome
Dog, Metalist, Atagathor, Vertical lifter at tte
Haw York Theatre (all ages)... Uoyd Jones Struggle at tte Yale... Kevin Welch at 86 Street...
Kasktia with Tile Waltons at tte Commodore...
Don Storace Quartet at Alma Street Cafe... Ahmed
Hassan & Peggy Baker ia Sola Dance at Vancouver East Cultural Centre... Pig Farm, Pretty
Wicked Read, Tbe Desperate Men, Moist, Jack
feels Fine at tte Hungry Eye... Helios Creed,
Zipgun, Toiling Midgets at tbe Offramp (Seattle)...
Debbie Davies with tte Seattle Blues Revue at
tte Backstage (Seattle)-. Mayworks film & Video
Festival: Mortal Deeds: Airline Film #4A, Crossing tte Bar, Memories of Milk City, Moose law,
Chinamaa's Peak: Walking tke Mountain (7:30pm)
aad Under tte Illusion: Illusions, Tbe Bead Mai
Was a Womai, Juggling Gender, Ike lady Beautiful (9:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
SAT 8 Crackerbasb, Tbe Meices, Zipgun, Kill
Sybil, Sinister Sii, Sicko at tke Aaza Club... Zen
with Toque, Colour Oat of Space, lad Sagar at
Nappy Ougout (ail ages)... Malhavoc, JFA, MDC,
The Smalls, f acepaller, Sparkmarker at the New
York Theatre... James Keelaghan witk Sam Weis
aid Colleen Ecclestoi at the mi Ml... Doi
Storace Trio at Alma Street Cafe... Beat farmers
witk Jr. Goae Wild, Rattled loosters aid Last
Wild Sons at tke Commodore... Hoy d J ones Struggle at tke Yale... Maestro Fresh Wes with Kisb at
86 Street... Orquesta La Clave, Orquesta B.C.
Salsa, Orquesta Vancouver Latia Caaaectioa at
Maritime Labour Ceatre... Vaacoaver Bach Choir
at the Orpheum... Akmed Hassan's Neat, Strange
Music at Vancouver East Cultural Centre (2pm)...
Tbe Waltons, State af Mild, Stigmata, Nowhere
Blatsoms at tte Hungry Eye... Bathtub Gin,
Spoonbender, Eat tte Feeling at the Offramp
(Seattle)... Tba Mat Cooleys at the Backstage
(Seattle)... Mayworks Film _ Video Festival: Deceptively Simple: The Death of Stalinism, TV
Borisz, Tke Art of Protective Coloration, White
Wash, Ur-analysis (lpm) aad Romanaaeiag ihe
Third World: Sin City Diary, Lave, Woman and
Flowers, Brown Woman, Blonde Babies (3pm)
aad Oa tbe Job: Ol... But I've Got to Get ta Work,
Mitebpo Vevpensa.The Measure of Success, This
Is Not Yoir Life, Nursing History, Unbidden
Voices, Did You Da tbe Napkin Taps?, Fast food
Women (5pm) and BirthRight: Creation, Labours
of Love, Ikajurti: Midwifery in the Canadian Arctic (7:30pm) and Arresting Resistance: Oit af
tke Blue, Framing tte Panthers in Black aad
White, Resurgence: Tka Movement far Equality
vs. The Ku Klux Klan (9:30pm) at Pacific
Cinematheque...
SUN 9 Funk V Stein with Pigment Vehicle, Roll
Cage, Tke Scrubs at Nappy Dugout (all ages)...
808 State with Meat Beat Manifesto and Supreme Love Gods at tba Commodore... lames
Keelagbaa with Sam Weis aid Colleen Eccleston
at the WISE Hall... Low Pap Suicide at tbe Offramp
(Seattle)... Paris, Texas and Paris Trout at Gam's
Schnitzel Palace...
MON 10 The Bel-Airs at the Yale... Dong Deep
& Bonk at tte Hungry Eye... IFA, Jack Killed Jill at
tte Offramp (Seattle)... The Krays at Gam's
Scbiitzel Palace...
TUE 11 The Bel-Airs at the Yale... Crael Elephant Cruel 70s Disco at tka Commodore-
Disco Rules OK? at tbe Hungry Eye... Asbok,
Fosso, Melody Rail at tte Offramp (Seattle)...
The Year My Voice Broke at Can's Schnitzel
Palace... lisa, Queei of tte Nazi Love Camp at
fireball Arts Centre...
WED 12 The Bel-Airs at tha Yale... Fraser
MacPherson Quartet with Oliver Cannon at Alma
Street Cafe... A Cartoon Swear at the Hungry
Eye... Bolos, Jim, Toigne Tied, Rattletrap at tke
Offramp (Seattle)... Supervixens aid Beneath
tbe Valley of the Ultravixensat Can's Schnitzel
Palace... lisa, Queen of tke Nazi Love Camp at
Firehall Arts Centre... The Global Meat factory:
Personal and Ecological Consequences of a Meat-
Centred Diet lecture at la Quena...
THU 13 CiTR PRESENTS BOB WISEMAN WITH
VEDA HILLE AND SICK SICK YEAH AT VANCOUVER
EAST CULTURAL CENTRE... State of Mind at tke
Pit Pab... The Demons at tte Yale... Blues Traveler
at tbe Commodore... Miles Black at Alma Street
Cafe... Above Ground at the Jewish Community
Centre... Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre at
Queen Elizabeth Theatre... Doug leap & lash.
Moist at the Hungry Eye... Vertical After, Condemned, Soil Museum, Bootleg Johnny at the
Offramp (Seattle)... Laarie Lewis at the Backstage (Seattle)... 36 filette at Can's Sckaitzel
Palace... lisa, Queen of tke Nazi Lave Camp at
firekall Arts Ceatre...
FRI 14 Benefit Coacert for Noel Dili of Figgy
Diff witk Wyckkam Porteas, Rattle ia tke Desk,
Geoffrey Kelly, Alaa MacLeod, Piglets of Joy,
fear of Drinking, Peter Alaa, Jennifer West at tke
WISE Hall... Tke Demons at tke Yale... Alvin Ailey
America! Daace Theatre at Queen Elizabeth Theatre... Jazzberry lam aid Naked Vike at tke Hungry Eye... Dead Moon, Strange Fruit at tke Offramp
(Seattle)... lisa, Queen of tke Nazi Love Camp at
Firehall Arts Ceatre...
SAT 15 CiTR PRESENTS THE FLUID WITH POSTER
CHILDREN AT THE TOWN PUMP... Roots Roundup
at Nappy Dugout (all ages)... The Demons at the
Yale... Toots & tte Maytals with Club Maigo at
tbe Commodore... Eileen McGann with Brenda
laker at the WISE Hall... Alvin Ailey Aaericaa
Dance Theatre at Queen Elizabeth Theatre... Shine
aid friday Kills at the Huigry Eya... list, Qaaea
of tha Nazi Ufa Camp at Firehall Arts Centre...
Faye Hoffman's exhibition Taut at Artimesia
closes... Performances and Readings by Adonica,
BBUNO, Sister Nadine, Mark Pouser at Pitt Cal-
SUN 16 WAVAW Benefit at Blast Records...
Champ, Red Skeleton, Balloon Man, Kings Fail at
the Offramp (Seattle)... Paper Maaa aid Cinema
Paradiso at Can's Schnitzel Palace... lisa, Qaaea
of tte Nazi Lave Camp at firehall Arto Centre...
MON 17 Pato Banton at Richards on Richards.,.
Oliver aad the Elements at the Yale... Russell
Jackson laad at tte Hungry Eye... Auat Acid, Still
Ufe, Gardes of Hedon, Lightning Strikes Twice at
the Offramp (Seattle)... Deliverance and Public
Eiemy at Gam's Schnitzel Palace... Usa, Queen
af the Nazi Love Camp at Firehall Arts Centre...
TUE 18 The Cows wilh Janitor Joe and Seed at
Nappy Dugout (adages)... Jesus Jones with Rose
Chronicles at Plaza af Nations... Cruel Elephant
Crael 70s Disco at tte Commodore... The
Vaqueros at the Yale... Disco Rules OK? at the
Kangry Eye... Bombshells, Chrome Dog, Slo-
Deluxe, Na Marcy at the Offramp (Seattle).- Big
Head Tadd with tte Monsters at tte Backstage
(Seattle)... Indian Runner at Can's Schnitzel
Palace... lisa, Queen af the Nazi Love Camp at
Firehall Arts Centre...
WED 19 Sugar with Pond and Grant Lee Buffalo
at the Commodore... The Vaqieros at the Yale...
The Cows, Janitor Joe, Bone Cellar at tka Offramp
(Seattle)... Ani Difranco with Sam Wais at tba
Backstage (Seattle)... Tie Me Up, Tie Ma Down
aad Matador at Can's Schnitzel Palace... lisa,
Queen of tte Nazi lave Camp at firehall Arts
Centra...
THU 20 CiTR PRESENTS ROCKET FROM TK
CRYPT, CLAWHAMMER AND FLUF AT TIE TOWN
PUMP... Mystery Machine at tke Pit Pub... Jim
Byrnes at tke Yala... Shawn Colvia with lardea
Smith at Vaacoaver East Caltvrai Centre... Peace
aid Silence, Sun King, Ired Serious, Grahams
Parlour at the Offramp (Seattle)... Peter
Himmelman ai the Backstage (Seattle)... Barton
Fink ai Gam's Schnitzel Palace... Usa, Queen of
the Nazi love Camp at Firehall Arts Ceatre...
Karen Jamieson Dance Company's Tales of Descent at the Waterfront Theatre...
FRI 21 Rattled Roosters with Loose aid
Hollowheads at Nappy Dugout (all ages)... Jim
Byrnes at the Yale... The Phantoms at tbe Hungry
Eye... locket from tke Crypt, Clawhammer, Fluf,
Patters at the Offramp (Seattle)... Shaw. Calvia
with Taste aid Dardei Smith at tbe Paramount
(Seattle)... Viva Las Vegas aad Kiag Creala at
Care's Sckaitzel Palace... lisa. Queen af tte Nazi
Love Camp at firekall Arts Ceatre... Karen
Jamiesoa Daace Compaay's Tales of Desceat at
tke Waterfront Tkeatre...
SAT 22 lottom Feeders witk Zipgun, Mystery
Machine aid Sublime at Nappy Dagoat (all ages)...
Amaada Hagkes at Vancouver East Cultural Ceitre... 10,000 Maniacs at tke Vogue Tkeatre... Jim
Byrnes at tke Yale... Tke Phantoms at tke Haagry
Eye... Pail Teeas, Boredoms, Bratal Tratk, Tribe
8 at tbe Offramp (Seattle)... Tbe Last Pictare
Show at Can's Schnitzel Palace... Usa, Queen of
tba Nazi Love Camp at Firehall Arts Ceatre...
Karen Jamiesoa Dance Compaay's Tales af Descent at the Waterfront Theatre-, toy Ardeu's
exhibition Colour Photographs at Contemporary
Art Gallery closes...
SUN 23 Wig Torture and Apartment 36 at Blast
Records... Slowburn at tha Hungry Eye„. Legion
of Love, Segueway, Gads Painting, Liqaid Zoo at
the Offramp (Seattle)... Greg Brown with Bill
Morrissey at the Backstage (Seattle)...
MON 24 Oliver aad the Elements at tbe Yale...
Russell Jackson Said at tte Huigry Eye...
TUE 25 Incognito at tka Yale... Crael Elephaat
Cruel '70s Disca at the Commodore... Disco tiles
OK? at tha Hungry Eye... lack o-Fire, Fallouts at
tte Offramp (Seattle)... Karen Jamiesoa Daace
Company's Tales of Descent at the Waterfront
Tkeatre...
WED 26 Incognito at tke Yale... Jeter Le Pont
at tke WISE Hall... Karen Jamiesoa Dance Company's Tales of Descent at the Waterfront Theatre... Ii8 Home's exhibition Imagining Faces:
Portraits af Artists, Writers and Musicians at
Vancouver East Cultural Ceatre (until tbe 22nd)...
THU 27 CiTI PIESENTS fIREHOSE WITI IUN
WESTY IUN AT THE TOWN PUMP... Pere Uba with
Boae CM and Oraigutang at tbe Commodore...
The Pasties at tbe Pit Pub... Incognito at tbe
Yale... No Fun at tke Hiagry Eye... Karea Jamiesoi
Dance Compaay's Tales of Descent at tke Waterfront Tkeatre...
FRI 28 Adrian Legg at Tom Lee Music Hall...
Incognito at tke Yale... Iimpelsteelskii at tke
Hungry Eye... Pere Ubi at tbe lackstage
(Seattle)... V-Coi Science Fiction Convention at
Totem Residence, UIC... Karen Jamiesoi Daice
Compaay's Tales of Descent at tke Waterfront
Theatre...
SAT 29 Johnny Clegg, David laerwald, Lisa
Germano, Freedy Johnston, Michael larabas at
Discovery Theatre... lacagaita at tte Yale... V-
Coi Science Fiction Convention at Tatem Residence, UIC... Karea Jamiesoi Daice Compaay's
Tales of Descent at the Waterfront Theatre...
Naa Goldii's eskikitioi Tke Ballad of Sexial Dependency" Colour Pkotographs at Contemporary
Art Callery (until July 3)... Performances aad
leadiags by Adoaica, BBUNO, Sister Nadiae, Mark
Poaser at Pitt Gallery...
SUN 30 Jokaay Clegg, David laerwald, Lisa
Germano, Freedy Johnston, Michael larabas at
tbe lackstage (Seattle)... V-Coi Scieice Fiction
Convention at Totem Residence, UIC...
THE  BLANK GENERATION SUNDAYS
ARE YOU SERIOUS? MUSIC 8:00AM-
12:00PM All ol time is measured by its art.
ic. This show presentsthe
most recent new music from around the
world. Ears open. Hosted by Paul
Steenhuisen and lan Crutchley.
THE ROCKERS SHOW 12:15-3:00PM
Reggae innaall styles andtashion. George
Barret, Mike Cherry and Peter Williams
SOUL CHURCH 3:00-5:00 PM Alternating
Sundays with Brent Argo. Vancouver's
only program devoted entirely to African-
Canadian and African- American Gospel
music. Your rotating hosts are Vence Yeh
and Dave Langille (every secord week).
BLACK MUSIC 6:00-8:00PM Everything
Iromthe African-American tradition: Blues,
Gospel, Jazz. Soul. R&B, Funk, Hip Hop,
and current Dance Tracks. Mouldy vinyl to
shiny CD's. Your host, Lachlan Murray.
LULUS BACK IN TOWN 8.00-9:OOPM Tune
in as your hosts Vinnie Carpelli and Sonny
Prince play sc
GEETANJALI 9:00-10:00PM Geetanjali is a
one-hour radio show which features a
wide range of music from India. This includes classical music, both Hindustani
movies from the 1930's to the 1990>s,
Semi-classical music such as Ghazals
and Bhajans, and also Quawwalis, Folk
Songs, etc. Hosted by J. Dhar, A. Patel
and V. Ranjan.
RADIO FREE AMERICA 10:00PM-12:00AM
Join host Dave Emory and colleague Nip
Tuck for some extraordinary political research gua rant eedto make youthinktwice.
Bring your tape deck and two C-90s. Originally broadcast on KFX (Los Altos. Cali-
MONDAYS
THEMORNINGSHOW 7:30-8:15AMWake
up with the CiTR Morning Show. All the
news, sports and weather you need to
start your day. Plus what's happening at
UBC each day with UBC Digest, a feature
BBC World Service News at 8:00AM,
re from London, England.
STRAIGHT OUTTA JALLUNDHAR 4:00-
5:00PM Let DJ's Jindwa and Bindwa immerse you in radioactive Bhungra! "Chakkti
dephutayVListentoallourfavoritePunjabi
tunes - remixes and originals. Brraaaah!
THE CiTR DINNER REPORT 5:00-5:30PM
All the latest on campus: news, sports, an
in-depth inte
BREAKFAST Vt
' THE BROWNS 8:15-
MEKANIKALOBJEKTNOCE1:15-3:00PM
CiTRs onry al vidustrial / industrial /ambient
show with dtfferent features every week. With
your djpalsJune and Ren. RhysFuber hates
May 3: Tonight a neglected alto
saxophone genius...hisnameFrankS1rozier.
Frank was called by John Coltrane "one of
the most harmonically advancedoftheyoung
players" (quote from 1960). Frank Strozier
with tbe late trumpeter Booker Little and
Miles Davis' boss rhythm section. "Fantastic
Frank Strozier".
May 10: One of the finest Jazz vocalists
at her very best. Anita ODay backed up by
piano great Oscar Peterson and his trio.
ODay has made scads of recordings but
this stands out as she interprets standard
tunes and shows us what Jazz singing is all
May 17: This is one of Thelonious Monks
few (his very _st)appearancesasaskteman.
As a favour to his great friend and favorite
trumpet and flugelhorn player Clark Terry,
Monk made this delightful recording. Monk
and Terry backed superbly by Sam Jones
(bass) and "Philly Joe" Jones (drums).
Recorded in May 1958.
May 24: Basie and Ellington together.
one-time recording. How they blend and
swing and stay out of one another's way.
You'll hear all the great soloists from both
bands. A great get-together by two of the
most important bands in Jazz history.
May 30: Legendary tenor saxophonist
Ike Quebec in an all-star date. Big toned
hard swinging and mellow Mr. Quebec sets
the pace with fellow tenorist Stanley
Turrenfine, trombonist Bennie Green (the
person who does The Jazz Show's theme),
pianist Son nyClark,the "Judge" (Miff Hinton)
on bass andArt Bla key on drums...a swinging
and warm date from Jan. 1962.
THE UNHEARD MUSIC 7:0O-9:00PM Meat
the unherd where the unheard and the
hordes of hardly herd and heard, courtesy
of host and demo director Dale Sawyer.
Herd upl
AVANT-PIG 9:00PM-12:00AM Alternating
Tuesdays with Wolf at the Door. Now
three hours of funky, ambient noise-
piggery with Pete Lutwyche and Norm.
WOLF AT THE DOOR 9:O0PM-12:OOAM
Alternating Tuesdayswith Avant-Pig. The
days with host lai
needs to know about U.B.C. Thundi
sporls. Hosted by Trevor Brawdy.
BOXER SHORT BOYZ 7:0O-9:0OPM Just a
couple of guys who like to walk around in
hanging out. Jerome Broadway and Garnet Timothy Harry alternate weeks.
THE   JAZZ   SHOW   9:00PM-12:00AM
\try music to scrape the cowshit off your boots
lp. With yer host-poke Jeff Gray.
LIVE FROM VENUS 3:00-5:00PM Women-
made music and stuff, hosted by Jane Tilley.
MEET IDA BEAN 6:00-7:00PM Rap, hip
hop.and Super Dope Lyrics- so fly that you'll
do 3-5 just for getting caught listening to tha
stuff. Requests are taken...K you can get
through on the phone! Ida Bean's on the tip!
every second week. With Lupus
Yonderboy.
AURAL TENTACLES MIDNITE UNTIL
THE MOON DROPS Fun for the whole
family to enjoy I Weird chunks of news,
odd pieces of tuneage, Pierre and the
2AM WWOD.
WEDNESDAYS
NOOLEYTUNES1:15-3:00PM Spinning the
best and worst of CiTR's playlist, only the
most original requests will be remotely
considered. Emphasis will be on new
material from around the world, regardless of musical classification.
NORMAN'S KITCHEN 3:00-5:00PM
Deitofrenetic Sonic Fidelity! Watch for our
monthly 'Norman's Big Envetope-o-stuff"
giveaway.
ESOTERIC 5:15-6:00PM DJs Trip and
Gustav take you where you didn'l want to
ENTERTAINMENT 9:00-12:00PM Only the
third Radio Program in the history of
Homo-sap ienkindtobe dedicated to solving all of the world's problems. Radio that
believes in confusion, noise, peace, love,
aggression and maybe even EVOLUTION. Top 701.
OPEN COUNTRY JOY 12:0M:00AM, 1ST
WED. OF EVERY MONTH. Don't let the
TALES FROM THE INFINITE
LIVINGROOM 12:0O-?:00AM, 2ND,
3RD, 4TH WED. OF EVERY MONTH.
Join Chris Pariah as he guides you
through the scapes and dream images
of the Infinite Livingroom, the only place
where the utterly absurd meets the
profoundly meaningless.
THURSDAYS
SHOUR-O-NAVA   7:30-9:00AM Shour-o-
Iranian music ranging from traditional, folk,
ethnic, mystic, old and contemporary pop.
Music ofvarious parts of Iran ie. Azerbaijani,
Kurdish, Lori, etc. are covered. We really
like to hear from all of our feteners to be
able to gear the show towards theirtastes.
Hosted by Mohammad.
CANADIAN LUNCH 11:00-1:00PM Tune in
for rockin' tunes from our home and native
land. Your hostess Coral plays your local
and national favorites.
POPGUN 1:OO-3:00PM *Why dont you love
ME as much as I love YOU ?*
FLEX YOUR HEAD 3:OO-5:0OPM
-—HARD JINX—-
-—ERIC CORE—-
GET M THE RING 5:30-6:0OPM Join Mike
and Brian every w
its from aH
political spectrum.
OUT   FOR   KICKS  6:00-7:30PM  No
Birkenstocks, nothing politically correct We
donl get paid so you're damn right we
have fun with it. Hosted by Chris B.
EDSVIliJE, POP.6 7:30-9:00PM Roots of
Rock 'n' Roll - If you don't get into Rock 'n'
Roll Heaven donl blame me! Hosted by
Eddie J.
LIVE FROM THUNDERBIRD RADIO HELL
9:00-11:00PM Local muzsakc from 9.
Live banzplay tha blues trom 10.
COPRAPHAGUS 11:0OPM-1:00AM
Rock'n'roll.
MEGABLAST! 1:00 AM-WHENUSTOP LISTENING minimalism, adamnoizisloan is
(ir)responsible.
FRIDAYS
VENUS FLYTRAP - LOVE NETWORK 8:00-
10:00 AM Top 5 things to love: 1)
Evaporator's "Detroit '69", 2) Caffe Barney's
Double "Cap's", 3) Local Band 'Dave
Marsden's Empty Pocketbook", 4) Junk
Food (Tie) - Hato Popo Japanese noodles
joint and PrestoPanini on Thurlow, 5) Sleeping "On Limahl* (Kajagoogoo, etc.), not "at
the mall" - the choice of the new generation
of "Eddy Vedder" skids.
I BEE NORMAL 10:00-11:00AM Pioneers of
Radio Sound advocating the mentally/physically challenged community with conscious
i: nk/i
ARE YOU
SERIOUS?
MUSIC
BRENT
ARGO/
SOUL
CHURCH
MON
■DEEE
BREAKFAST
WITH THE
BROWNS
DON AND
GOURD'S
STUPID
RADIO SHOW
MEKANIKAL
OBJEKT
NOIZE
SONIC SALAD
JALLUNDAR
TUE       WED
'[•i,i;ii;;-,n:N
MADONNA
DEATH
WATCH
BLOOD ON
THE
SADDLE
BROADCASTING
LIVE FROM
VENUS
BLACK&TAN
GEETANJALI
ONE STEP
BEYOND/
RADIO FREE
AMERICA
N THE GRIP
OF INCOHERENCY
BOXER
SHORT
BOYZ
fflMifHS aSfli'ifl Mflrf frrffftftfl
WOLF AT
THE DOOR/
AVANT PIG
DIGITAL
ALARM
CHRONO-
XHU        FRI
i-iMJMij.uri]
SAT
NOOLEY
TUNES
NORMANS
KITCHEN
MAPLE
SYRUP &
BACK BACON
TALES FROM
THE INFINITE
LIVINGROOM
COUVDETAT
LIVE FROM
THUNDERBIRD
RADIO HELL
MEGABLAST!
VENUS
FLYTRAP
INTERNTL.
CROOKED
NOSE
SLIDE
FUNK..DUB/
NARDWUAR/
NOIZ SHOW
COCKTAILS
WITH DARYL
AND
SUSI
8
9
10
11
;i4vH12
i
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
1
2
3
4
Skeene's the music, Conway's the voice.
The whole is edging the limits.
LO-FI 1_O-2:30PM lo-fi.
FUNKIN' RAP INNA DUB STYLEE 2:30-
3:30PM The Grand Royal Dr. Bootsy
Funkenstein tha Second says "Ifs time to
NARDWUAR THE HUMAN SERVIETTE
PRESENTS... 3:3(M:00PM White Light!   O
THE NOIZ SHOW 4:00-5:00PM
anoizdnoizanoizmnoizsnoizlnoizonoi
THE CiTR DINNER REPORT 5O0.20PM
With "The Voice of Reason," our weekly
look back atthe weekinthe news, tongues
PROJECTIONS 5:30- 6:00PM Jason and
Steve extend a hearty Thank you" to   '
those listeners brave enough to listen to
us babble about filn-, music, theatre or
whatever else is on our culturally en-
FOR THE RECORD 6:30. :45PM Excerpts   ^
from Dave Emory's Radio Free America   '
Series.
HOMEBASS 9:00PM-12:30AM Dopejams
and fresh beats for a groovy evening with
DJ Noah on the wheels of steel.
LIMP SINK 12:30AM-Morning Lullabies for
the Christ-child. Hosted by the G42
players.
'She mashed it harder and harder, but she
had fun, and itwas her banana." Fire Pipe
was brought to you by the number" 180"
and the letter "G".
The Doctor Killdare Show -
My favorite part was when she went to go
grab the banana and Julius Ceasar cried
ZERAH!
and then the monkey sdentistss fainted!        £-
May 7: Fire Pipe #11
May 14: The Doctor Killdare Show
May 21: Fire Pipe #12 - Negativland
May 28: The Doctor Killdare Show
SATURDAYS
THE SATURDAY EDGE 8:00AM-12:OOPM
Now in ts 8th year on the air, The Edge on £
Folk features music you worff hear anywhere else new releases in the realm of
Celtic, Fok arid Roots; studio guests; British
comedy sketches; and British soccer results
at 11:30 AM. 8-9 AM: African/World roots. 9-
12 noort Celtic music and feature perfor-
POWERCHORD 12:153:00PM Vancouver's
only true metal show; local demo tapes,    %
imports and other rarities.GeraldRattlehead
and Metal Ron do the damage.
THE AFRICAN SHOW 3:005:00PM Ifs a
musb thing from al "Africa." Ifs an awareness thing of sel and others. Ifsan African
house party. Stories, music, dancef un. Wel-
THE SATURDAY MAGAZNE 5««:30PM
UBC's weekend news. Al the latest news,    •
sports, weather, a movie review, feature
report and more.
IN EFFECT 6:00_:00PM The Hip Hop beat
and nuttin'butt. With hostPDS.
THE HEMUCH MANOUVRE 8_O-10:00PM
Sophisticated radiofortheaterdinner crowd.
GROOVE JUMPING 10:COPM-1:00AM Terry
and John? Justin and Tom? Choose your      -
a slight
joke that you donl
WHOM   &   HOW
ARTS SHAWN BOUCHARD
BOARD CHAIR   HARRY HERTSCHEG
CURRENT AFFAIRS IAN GUNN   ,
DEMOS/CASSETTES DALE SAWYER   '
ENGINEER        RICHARD ANDERSON
ENTERTAINMENT        CHRIS CHEN
MOBILE SOUND DRU  PAVLOV
MUSIC SVEA SJOBERG
NEWS IAN GUNN
DRU PAVLOV
JUSTIN LEIGH
ADAM SLOAN
A.O. CHAPMAN
CORAL SHORT .
TREVOR BRAWDY   I
PRODUCTION
PROGRAMMING
PROMOTIONS
SECRETARY
SPORTS
STATION MANAGER LINDA SCHOLTEN
STUDENTENGINEER BOOTSY SLOAN
VICE PRESIDENT      HELEN GODOLPHIN
VOLUNTEER COORDINATOR     JOHN RUSKIN  1869 W 4th Ave.,
Vancouver. BC
V6J1M4
CANADA
tel 604.738.3232
STORE HOURS
Mon to Wed 10:30-7:00
Thurs and Fri 10:30-9:00
Sat 9:30-6:30
Sun 12:00-6:00
Thursdau Mau 6> *   Grpceland *
I ******* ' ^        ■■—      |250   RICHARDS STREET
D00rS 9 pm    *g.50 AT THE DOOR ONLY
p>* ^HJRIMCLE •
VW*'.-'
WMETRtt
Zulu Records features
3 cd listening booths
—try before you buy!
Don't forget Zulu's used
cd and cassette section
—getting bigger all the time
We also stock a variety
of cool magazines —
from the ridiculous to
the sublime, from Sassy
to Maximum Rock'n'Roll
from Canada and
abroad
Bob's Your Uncle
-Cages-
On CO and Cass from Zulu
Records. Available this month.
All prices in effect
until May 31.1993
New
at
Zulu
this
month
Polvo
® Today's Active Lifestyles
This is music for today's active and chaotic
lifestyles — music that refuses to settle into
one groove or languish in pop formula. Polvo
combine various tones, textures, and noise
with an unpredictability to create a unique
amalgamation that stands up to repeated
listenings. On this, their second album. Polvo
have built upon the promise of their first
release. "Cor-Crane Secret", and are set to
move up in the indie rock hierarchy. To quote
Alternative Press. "[Today's Active Lifestyles]
lifts Polvo into the rarefied company of
Mercury Rev as perhaps America's most
inspired rock band." Nuff said.
14.98cd/9.98cass
IMPORT
Porno For Pyros
® (self-titled)
We all know what this is all
about. Perry Farrell driving
force behind Jane's Addiction
and the hotshot that put
together the Lollapalooza
Festivals, has pulled together
another band. This has to be
the most anticipated release
of recent history. Be there
when history is made.
16.98cd/
9.98cass
The Posies
® Frosting On The Beater
What's this? A band from the land of Mudhoney.
Pearl Jam. and Nirvana that doesn't turn its
amps up to eleven? With all the hype about the
Northwest scene, one of its best bands has. so
far. been sadly overlooked. This new Posies
album should change that injustice. First there
was "Failure" on Popllama. a huge indie
success that got the Posies signed to DGC. Then
came "Dear 23". which drew raves and
numerous comparisons to classic popsters like
Big Star. The Beatles, and The Raspberries. Now
we have a new album of delicious sounds, full
of wit and brimming with melody. Forget the
trends—at the end of the day. when some
other scene is being ultra-hyped, it's the music
that matters, not the horse hockey.
14.98cd/9.98cass
4f
Reverend Horton Heat
® The Full-Custom
Gospel Sounds Of...
What happens when you combine the raw
rockabilly sounds of the Reverend and the
dimentia of Butthole Surfers' Gibby Haynes? We
don't know either, but we're looking forward to
finding out That's right Gibby has produced the
preacher man's follow-up to his wild Sub-Pop.
rockabilly, frenzy debut "Smoke em If You
Gottem". Anyone who witnessed the Rev in action
at the Cruel Elephant recently knows the man and
his band put on an amazing show. We could
explain how the Reverend transcends the
rockabilly genre, fusing the rhythms of rockabilly
with the full-on assault of grunge, to mold a
truly... etc etc—but who cares? Just rock!
14.98cd/9.98cass
IMPORT
Sebadoh
• Bubble And Scrape
Hey. didn't "Smash You Head Against The
Punk Rock" come out like, ya know, just last
month or something? And now a new album.
"Bubble And Scrape". One more reason to
doubt your boyfriend—Sebadoh.
Seb-A-Doh. Your post-modern folk-core
saviours—SEBADOH. Your new favorite,
dope-smoking, rennaisance threesome
—SEBADOH. Open chord-tuning saviours of
alternative rock'n'roll—SEBADOH. Guitar,
bass, percussion: the fire, the wind, the
heartbeat—SEBADOH. SEBADOH. SEBADOH.
It's not bullshit A moment of inept grace. Eric.
Jason, and Lou. SEBADOH. A heartfelt drone
you should know.
14.98cd/9.98cass
IMPORT