  --I
BEAT FARMERS - Viking Lullabys
CADILLAC TRAMPS - It's Allright
D*NOTE ■ Babel
FACE TO FACE - Don't Turn Away
KMFDM - Angst
LAGWAGON - Trashed
1160 Robson Street
«. Royal Shopping Centre/West Vancouver
Guildford Town Centre/Surrey '
HMV
Ignition - OFFSPRING
Unknown Road • PENNYWISE
Let's Go - RANCID
Wet Pants Club - SMUGGLERS
Ultramega OK - SOUNDGARDEN
Foolish - SUPERCHUNK
1 Willowbrook Shopping Centre/Langley
Richmond Centra/Richmond
*    October 1994 3    S£gg°2£g3 Dear Airhead/Grant Lawrence,
Andy from Insult to Injury here.
Thanks for the great review last
issue. Imagine my surprise to find
out i am in "another all-female
Vancouver band"! Wow! this explains alot...i can't wait to tell the
other two fellas in the band. It's
also neat how 3/4 of our band is
close to 30 years of age yet still
are able to produce "juvenile
harecore"...cool. Grant also liked
i\>t* I** *vVvs
all the "stuff to read on both
bands"...but wait, why couldn't he
read the guys names, or (evidently)
the lyric sheet? If Juvenile means
naive, unexperienced or childish,
hke (i think) he meant—i wonder if
he read the words at all? I'll enclose
a copy of our lyric booklet—you
make the call. You can get these
booklets at our shows...but you
wouldn't know that because hke all
the juvenile-girl-bands in Vancou
ver you won't see us at the Hungry
Eye, Starfish Room, Town Pump
etc....and DiSCORDER don't do
D.I.Y.
Yer Pal,
Andy
Editor,
This is in regards to your review
of my 'zine, Pool Dust, and who-
Well, you got one thing right:
besides skateboarding, I am working on two degrees at a university, I
write, I take pictures, yes, I do more
than skate.
However, your review paints
me, as I am the sole Pool Dust
worker, as some sort of sexist
bufoon propagating stereotypes. I
feel I must write in my defense.
First, the pictures in question
were paid ads. Regardless of any
stance I might take on sexism,
censorism, morality, etc., first and
foremost I am a very low income
student and it would be very difficult for someone hke me to refuse
a chance at coming closer to breaking even.
Second, one must define sexism
and exploitation, and from those
two come a shitload of others such
as art, erotica, pornography, etc.
which lead to discussions of beauty,
acceptability, morality, etc. My pri-
"CHIPMUNKS  & SQUIRRELS"  FANS
DELIGHT!
YouVe read 'em right here n DISCORDER! Now, for the first time anywhere -
THE FIRST OFFICIAL PAPERBACK COLLECTION OF MICHAEL
AUSHENKER'S CHIPMUNKS & SQUIRRELSJ^OMIC STRIPS!
flit***
;. be one of the first 1 8 8 to
'i order and you'll get a
"•!•:•:• copy personally doodled
ixv& autographed to vbu by
;X;the cartoonist!
READERS & RETAILERS - SEND YOUR CHECK OR MONEY
ORDER OF $6.9 5 PER COPY (includes shipping & handling)
TO:  ORIGINAL   SYNDICATE fy
355   N.   LA   BREA   AVE.
LOS   ANGELES,   CA   90036
>w    4    -    8    weeks    delivery    (in
««*%-
me    for    the    holidays)
mary concern is whether or not the
ads harmed anyone, incited anyone
to violence or acts of degradation
against women. I doubt it.
Third, if you think nudity is offensive, you might be experiencing
what is known as a 'knee-jerk politically-correct reaction,' a.k.a. a
'hang-up.'
Finally, look at the magazine you
write for, specifically pages 4, 10,
the Pansy Division centerfold (my
word!), 16, 17, 21, and 27. Nudity/
sexuality abounds. I hope you'll 'do
the right thing' and quit writing for
that smutty rag, Discorder.
On the flip side, women da sell
skateboards; granted it is usually to
narrow-minded hormone-driven
teenagers. Too bad, however, one
always has the right not to support
the shop, but not the right to supress
freedom of ideas, including advertising. It really works both ways.
A final fallacy: because of the
nudity in Discorder, I feel alienated
as a boy to go into shops that carry
the magazine. I went so far as to quit
my job at the record/comic shop
because they carried your 'zine. Is
that far enough?
Oh, and by the way, I don't like
to see pictures of people eating hot
dogs with lizard legs and tails sticking out. Jerks.
Sincerely,
Chris Lundry
Pool Dust *zine
POBox8S664
Seattle, Wil
98145-1664
P.S. Your 'Grunge City' cheap shot
was way off the mark. My 'zine covers primarily punk, and you would
have noticed that if you got past the
back page.
Dear Chris,
Hello, my name is Trish Kelly. I
am the person who wrote the review
of your 'zine in Discorder. I am glad
that you wrote a response to that
review and now I would like to respond to the justifications you offered.
I'm really sorry that you are
working towards a double major.
that must be really rough. I can understand that you must be short on
money. I am very sorry that someone so privildged as to have a
chance at a college education is
willing to exploit other human beings to achieve that degree of success. But I guess maybe it is just
me that believes that if you have to
stand on the backs of others, it really isn't worth it. I don't buy your
justifications.
Next point: I find it so interesting that someone should be so
against "political correctness" because it restricts our languauge and
diminishes it, but that same person
will do the same thing to another
person by calling them PC. I know
the tactic. If I say something that
challenges your idea's or questions
if they exist, you will call me PC
and that kills the conversation. I am
not politically correct, I am concerned with how my actions affect
others.
How can you in one sentence
say that it is true that girls sell skate
boards, but then in the next sentence
accuse me of having a hangup? Actually, maybe I do have a hangup.
You see, when I read your 'zine, I
get caught up in the fact that I know
I am not an equal. I don't identify
with the dope smoking boys in their
big protective clothes, I identify
with that naked (or half naked) girl
standing all exposed to the weather
and your critical eye; I identify with
the girl in the picture who knows
that girls have nothing to do with
skateboarding. If you were displaying naked people as a means of liberating them, that would be one
thing. But you are exposing them
and exploiting them for your own
You have complete control over
what your paid advertisers give you.
You are in control of what you print.
If you can't find other sponsors and
you can't afford it, then you
shouldn't be doing a 'zine. I know
it is possible to publish without
those ads because I write a 'zine and
I have managed to go a whole year
without any advertising. And yeah,
it is expensive and comes out of my
pocket, but if you are doing your
'zine because you love to, not because it is your economics class
project, you would find a way to do
it without those shops. You see, if
you really didn't want to be sexist
and were against those land of ads,
you could do something. You could
tell them no and they would listen
because if your 'zine is a good place
to advertise they will want to be in
it. You are just perpetuating sexism
and the division that your pri vilidge
includes.
I'm glad that you do more than
skate. And I'm really glad that you
are in school. Exactly what year do
you take Ethics?
Sincerely,
Irish Kelly
Right on sister! And by the way,
Chris, in your summation of
DiSCORDER's naughty bits you
missed some good offensive dog
humping on page 25. - ed.
All letters are printed as
received (unless otherwise
stated), so don't blame us if
you sound like a bone head!
POETRY&FICTION
DiSCORDER WANTS YOUR
ORIGIN ALPOERTY AND
SHORT FICTION FOR
PUBLICATION. SEND ALL
SUBMISSIONS TO: CIO
DiSCORDER
#233-613& SUB BLVD.
Vancouver, B.C.
Canada
V6T1Z1
OR
Fax your stuff to:
(604) S22-9364
OR
Call Scotia at £22-3017 to
read your stuff on CiTR!
Oh no!
I forgot to
renew my
Discorder
subscription!
I'd better get
Wendy to put a
check in the
mail today!
We were
worried about
exploiting
lovable
cartoon
character
Casper to sell
magazines
until we
remembered
the first rule
of advertising:
Dead people
don't sue.
1 2 issues
$15.00
LISA
$15. US
Foriegn
$24.00
Send a cheque or
money order to:
DiSCORDER
SUBSCRIPTIONS
c/o CiTR
#233-6138 SUB BLVD.
Vancouver, B.C.
Canada
V6T1Z1
t    October 1994 WE'VE GOT TEN COPIES OF
THE SEMPER UB1 SUB UBI    i «    '
COMPILATION CD (INCLUDING TEENAGE FANCLUB, HOUSE   *
LINE ASSEMBLY AND SARA CRAIG) PLUS TEN PAIRS OF
JOE BOXER   SHORTS STINKIN' UP THE PLACE. WE'LL MAIL THEM TO YOU IF YOU PUT
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AND A (CLEAN) SNIPPET OF YOUR
FAVOURITE UNDERWEAR AND SEND THEM IN TO:
GINCH
C/O DiSCORDER MAGAZINE
6138 SUB BLVD.
VANCOUVER, B.C.
s ntggmmz A Small Ray of Light
by Sara&"3u\*)an
Suddenly and with £reat force
my body was elevated and slammed
violently against  the \na\\ as if
by Some invisible force as if Vn
a cheap horror movie.
And then the bloody thing
' was gone ; O^Ctt-sHStt&i-i^l
Of course, x
dismissed   the
episode as a
lucid nightmare. . .  But
on the other
hand, x have
always prided
myself on
j bd\Jir>£ -90
open mind. ,
VfhaV doe's th;s have, -to do \rJ»>Vi
anything?
A vgeefc after this happened, my
life began in earnest.
r went to  luncheon at my favorite   There was a new waitress work;,
restaurant"
Bof one most maintain some level
of decorum.     ^_,
She seemed
to  me "to
be   one of
"those
types"
5o x invited
her for a
drinVc th^
following
evening «30(i
She
accepted.
Otherwise vie ^
$ot aloncj    f ^\
splendidly    ' v^r
Even though she was 19 years old
she displayed   exquisite
--and   i+ wasn't   but a few
drinfcs   later &M We
were bacfc at her
place. ^^^T      O
6    October 1994 Devoting some of my space to
public service this month, I've prepared a little quiz for you diligent
cinephilistic readers out there. Answer each question Yes or No.
1. Do you ever go to movies alone?
2. Do you ever watch a movie before 11:00 am?
3. Have you ever watched more
than four films in one day?
4. Have you ever watched a film
in fast forward just to say you've
seen ill
5. Have you ever missed a day of
work to see a movie?
6. Do you need to watch a movie
to have a good time?
If you answered Yes to one or
more of these questions, you could
be addicted to film. Search deep
within yourself. Has your need to
escape the harsh reality of life on
20th century Earth in the delicious
fantasy world of cinema superseded
your grasp on the here and now? If,
as you read this, you are nodding
your head in agreement, you will
have to face the facts. You're
Your options are limited. You can
seek help, but why bother? Help is
usually costly or involves believing
in a god, both of which are much
worse than spending your days with
a horde of good flicks. My advice
is to call 685-8352 to get the low-
down on this year's Vancouver International Film Festival and gorge,
GORGE, GORGE!
From September 30th to October 16th, 375 presentations of 250
movies from 40 countries will be
projected onto the screens of Vancouver's finest theatres for your information and delectation. As usual,
the emphasis is on independent,
smaller budgeted films and, also par
usual, there is something for every-
You have an avid interest in life
in the Palestinian refuge camps? No
problem. Gay porn is your cup of
tea? Got it. Jean-Luc Godard sets
your thighs aflame? The festival's
got a double shot!
Many of the series feature at previous festivals make a return this
year. Faultlines: Nonfiction Films of
1993 is "an expanded program of
documentary films exploring political, ethical or biographical themes"
and continues the VIFFs commitment to providing a forum for the
world's great documentarians,
young and old. The selection this
year covers topics as diverse as gays
in the American military (Coming
Out Under Fire, Dir: Arthur Dong),
Tiananmen Square (Moving the
Mountain, Dir: Miachael Apted),
Tangiers resident and US expatriot
Paul Bowles (Paul Bowles: The
Complete Outsider, Dir: Catherine
Warnow & Regina Weinrich), and
self-promoting sarcasm queen
Sandra Bernhard (Sandra
Bernhard: Confessions of a Pretty
Lady, Dir: Kristiene Clare). The
stand-out must-see is last year's
Academy Award winner for Best
Feature Documentary, / Am a
Promise: The Children of Stanton
Elementary School. "Filmmakers
Alan and Susan Raymond roam the
halls and classrooms [of an inner-
city school in North Philadelphia]
as 725 African-American pupils attempt, with varying degrees of willingness and success, to defy poverty, violence, and drugs in order to
receive the most basic education."
The popular late night Walk on
the Wild Side series is back and this
year looks better (read a lower gore
quotient) than ever. Says Sandy
Gow, series programmer, in the festival program:
"Only one feature comes to us
from conventional distribution
sources...It means that the chances
of ever seeing the majority of these
wonderful films in even .specialized
theatres...do not look good at
present. This is not to say that a distributor with a few cajones might
not come along and change this
equation, but these days distributors
of that variety are pretty much on
the endangered species list."
Midnight on Fridays and Saturdays during the festival's run (with
one additional daytime screening of
each film) might be your only shot
to see such titillating extravaganzas
as: Green Snake (Dir: Tsui Hark),
"a classic Hong Kong sword-and-
sorcery action-genre period piece,"
Dellamorte Dellamore (Dir:
Miachael Soavi), a "hip, irreverent"
film in the vein Return of Living
Dead, Love and a .45 (Dir: C.W.
Talkington), yet another psycho-
white-trash-lovers-on-the-larn flick,
and Toward Within (Dir: Mark
Magidson), the Dead Can Dance
performance film. I've got my most
jaded, baddest attitude ready for
Second Cousin, Once Removed
(Dir: John Shorney), which
"borrow's] influences from '40's
hard-boiled melodramas, the French
New Wave, and early '60's cop
shows...The film is a non-stop run
of droll comedy, genre references,
and wonderfully defined charac-
Just as exciting as a midnight
stroll through the nether world of
off-beat film is the most acclaimed
and fastest growing series at the
VIFF: Dragons and Tigers: The
Cinemas of East Asia. Now the
"largest and most adventurous program of East Asian cinema outside
of East Asia," the series will, for the
first time, hand out some cash in the
form of a Young Cinema from Pacific Asia prize. Adjudicated by an
international panel, the award will
go to the "most creative and innovative first or second feature by a
new director." The films nominated
include Japanese takes on young
love both heterosexual (The Window
is Yours, Dir: Tomoyuki Furumaya)
and homosexual (/ Like You, I Like
You Very Much, Dir: Hiroyuki Oki),
a "hallucinatory decent into the
lower depths of pre-Olympic Seoul
(La Vie en Rose, Dir: Kim Hong
June), and "a poignant account of
love in the city" (Vive L'Amour, Dir:
Tsai Ming Liang).
Also making triumphant returns
in the 1994 version of the VIFF are
the series Best of Britain, Cinema
of our Time, Canadian Images, and
the conjuctionally held Trade Forum. In its ninth year of providing
discussions with and addresses by
some of the leaders of the North
American film industry, October 6-
8 the forum will be geared towards
aiding and abetting the folks of the
BC film industry who helped generate a reported 857 million dollars
worth of economic excitement last
year. The coup de grace of the forum's line up of key-note speakers
and panelists was confirming enter
tainment law giant (who may or
may not be described as 'friendly')
Peter Dekom for a special luncheon.
With clients like Tom Hanks,
Arnold, Sly, and George Lucas, it
is highly likely that Mr. Dekom will
know what he's talking about when
he deigns to speak about his profession.
For those seeking entrance to the
hallowed land of filmmaking, Oct.
5th has been designated "New Filmmakers Day" and will feature panels that tackle the difficulties of getting started in show biz. Resources
(Funding Agencies and Organization, Preparation and Pitches), Developing Your Portfolio, and Unions
and the No-Budget/Low Budget
Filmmaker are a few of the undoubtedly informative panels planned.
Though the festival has some
pricey options for involvement,
there are many that will sound
sweeter to the impoverished pock-
etbook owner. A Gold pass, entitling
the bearer to all screenings except
galas is $175, but for seniors and
students the pass is renamed "Silver" and the price is slashed to $100.
You can catch any matinee screening with a Daytime pass for $50 and
any midnight showing with a Walk
on the Wild Side series pass for $25.
Advance discount tickets are sold
in books often for $60. Regular single performance tickets are $7 and
$5 for matinees.
Whatever you can shell out for,
go wild and turn here next month
for a round up of the biggest thrills
and disappointments of this year's
festival.
Note: DiSCORDER and Tania
Bolskaya take no responsibility for
any addictions that may result from
the advice given in this column.
The 13th Annual Vancouver International Film Festival presents
My Generation
(Canada, 84 min.) A collection of
short comedies about sex, family,
miscommunication and extinct
mammals. Peter Lynch's Arrowhead
features Ray Bud, a bored post-teen
from suburbia who takes the audience on a hilariously trivial tour of
his environment. Body Follies is
Kathy Sperberg's multi-media piece
that parodies cliched 1970s ideas of
non-verbal communication. Porcaria
is Filipe Paulo's sexcapade featuring
a Portuguese immigrant couple,
their gay lodger and an Icelandic
telephone repair man. Anthony
Couture's Around About Tuesday
proves to be a mock-cinema verite
comedy about a family feud and a
disastrous funeral.
Cinematheque: Oct 2,7:00 pm and
Oct 5,10:00 am.
Vancouver Centre
Pacific
Cinematheque
Caprice
Ridge
Hollywood
Tokyo Cowboy
(British Columbia, 94 min.)  No
Ogwa is captivated by the wild west
of Hollywood movies; determined to
live that dream, he sets out from
Tokyo to Canada to become a cowboy.
Ridge: Oct 1, 7:00 pm;
Van Cen: Oct 3, 4:45 pm.
Double Happiness
(British Columbia, 100 min.) Mina
Shum's debut feature is a hugely
entertaining story of a young aspiring
actress walking the line between her
traditional Chinese family and the
contemporary Western world she
grew up in.
Ridge: Sep 30,7:00 pm; Van Centre:
Oct 2. 4:15; Cinematheque: Oct 9,2:00 pm.
VANCOUVER
Darker Side of Black
{Great Britain, 55 min.) A confrontational walk through hip-hop
and dance-hatl culture by director Isaac julien (Young Sout Rebels).
Van Centre: Oct 7,7:30 pm; Cinematheque: Oct 8, Noon.
Johnny 100 Pesos
{Chile/USA/Mexico, 90 min.) Johnny Garcia is a misguided
teenager involved in a botched robbery that escalates into a siege.
Director Gustavo Graef Marino's stunningly directed black comedy-thriller is based on a real event.
Cinematheque: Oct 1,230 pm; Hollywood: Oct 9,7:00 pm;
Cioematheque: Oct 12,10:00 am.
Across the Moon
(USA, 100 min.) Two women (Elizabeth Pefia and Christina
Appleaate) form an unlikely union and decide to live together
after their boyfriends are incarcerated. Dir. Lisa GoteJieb s film features a rousing soundtrack by Exene Cervenka.
Caprice. Oct 1,7*0 pm; Ridge: Oct *, 4:00 pm.
Mod Fuck Explosion
(USA, 70 min.) San Francisco filmmaker jon Moritsuqu creates
what is surely the wildest take yet on the Romeo and Juliet story.
World Premiere.
Caprice: Oct 7, Midnight; Cinematheque: Oct 8,4*0 pm.
Totally F***ed Up
(USA, 79min.) Gregg Araki (The Living End) follows the lives of
six racially mixed gay/lesbian teens tn Los Angeles.
Van Cen: Oct 10.730 pm; Cinematheque: Oct 12.4:15 pm.
Toward the Within
(USA, 75 min.) Mark
Magidson's astounding concert
film based on the Dead Can
Dance duo's eighteen-date
tour of the United States and
Canada, in support of their last
album "Into the Labyrinth".
Caprice: Oct 8, Midnight
Ridge: Oct 10,930 pm.
FILM
B.C. Tel Film
Festival Hotline
685-8352 (noon - 9 pm)
Advance Tickets at
Pacific Cinematheque
Cash-Outlet (Noon-7pm)
Charge-Line
685-8297 (noon - 9 pm)
The Vancouver Sun Guide
available at participating
theatres, libraries &
usual outlets.
Clerks
(USA, 105 min.) The "slacker"
generation lives! Director Kevin
Smith —a Vancouver Film
School dropout — chronicles a
day in the life of a Quick Stop
Grocery store clerk.
Caprice: Oct 4,930 pm;
Van Cen: Oct 9, 430 pm.
Fun
(USA, 95 min.) In Rafal
Zielinski's film, two adolescent
girls murder a nice little old
lady out of rage masquerading
as a lark. Fun, of course, is
not..
Hollywood: Oct 1, 2:00 pm and
Oct.14,9:45 pm.
?    E^°£K33 October 1994 AH right, I'll admit it: To
music concerts because I enjoy
the atmosphere; it's a valid excuse to get a little dressed up for
outrageous price for a cafe latte
to sip while wandering around
the performance hall at intermission without feeling guilty,
and to pretend for a moment that
I've driven there in my BMW
(nobody has to know it was actually an AMC, dripping oil out
of every seal) while admiring
the art works on the wall or perusing the program for the
evening's performance. But by
far the most important aspect is
the enjoyment of the music: I
find something both stimulating
and settling in its structured expression of artistic talent, both
on the part of the composer and
the musician. I want the music
to take my thoughts away from
anything but itself, to overwhelm me with complexity of
interwoven rhythms and melodies at one moment and to entrance with poignant lyrical
simplicity the next. Given this,
perhaps you will have a vague
idea of how I would feel if a
work were to suddenly make me
start thinking of a long since
past first-year physics course.
But I'm getting ahead of myself. Before I go any further, I
should explain that I went to the
concert put on by the Vancouver New Music Society on September 18th, the second of two
concerts they hosted featuring
French pianist Anthony de Mare
and German composer and cellist Michael Bach. Both of
these artists are considered to be
first-rate by anyone's standards.
De Mare has received numerous
awards including a prestigious
First Place at France's International Competition of Contemporary Piano Music and both
First Prize and the Audience
Prize at the Dutch International
Gaudeamus Interpreters' Competition. He is a regular performer of modern piano works
in both Europe and North
America and has made recordings with the BBC as well as the
CBC. Michael Bach is considered to be an expert on modern
cello technique, having literally
written the book on the topic
(well, at least a very influential
text titled Fingerboards and
Overtones) and has recently
been active in the development
of a new curved bow for the
cello which will allow for a
greater diversity in playing. His
own playing style emphasizes
the instruments harmonics,
overtones, and phenomenal sustain and, under the nom de
plume of Michael Bach
Bachtischa, he has composed a
large number of works, many of
which are available on CD.
The program for this concert
sounded very promising, starting with "De Profundis." Based
a letter written by Oscar Wilde
while in prison for his sexual
orientation, "De Profundis" was
written in 1991 specifically for
de Mare by the American composer Frederic Rzewski to be
recorded as accompanying music to a film that is still in production. The letter itself is a
tribute to the strength of Wilde's
spirit and his desire to transform
the "degradation of the
body...into a spiritualising of
the soul" and, given the lofty
nature of this origin, I was expecting an equally lofty performance from the piano. It
was, but not in the way I had expected. The work called for de
Mare to hum, sigh, groan, sing,
and tap on the piano case, as
well as play the piano by more
traditional means in between
reading sections from the letter.
This sounds a little bizarre, but
it worked. It was an impressive
performance, and de Mare managed to play, turn pages of music and do the humming, tapping, howling, and honking of
a bicycle horn all at the same
time. The most surprising part
was that the added sounds (for
the most part) did a pretty good
job of helping to set the tone of
the work. In particular, de
Mare's 'mute-trumpet' humming effect was very realistic,
convincing me for a few moments that it was in fact being
computer-generated from a
sampler. If I were to compose a
work dealing with the same
topic I would choose a more
serious approach, but that is the
composer's perogative and I
must admit that the work was
very entertaining in performance. Unfortunately, I suspect
few musicians will be willing to
take the time to add this work
to their repertoire, so the only
chance to hear it may be in the
film it was composed for. If
you're interested, it is being
made by Lawrence Brose and
will be released in 1995. (The
program notes don't give the
work's title.)
The second work of the program was "ONE13" by John
Cage and Michael Bach
Bachtischa. It is my understanding that Cage is considered to
be one of the giants of modern
classical music, studied and
emulated by a great many newer
composers. Although I had not
previously heard any of his
works, this reputation was
enough to interest me in this his
last work completed only
shortly before his death in 1992.
The program notes describe the
work as 'a twenty-five minute
meditation on one pitch and its
many subtle gradations' but I
was undaunted; this, I believed,
would be a measure of the composer's art. I expected that the
piece would utilize complex
rhythmic themes to make a single note musical, but I was
wrong.
The work consisted entirely
of one note being played on the
cello in a limited variety of
ways: plainly on one string, as
a chord on several strings, with
a normal bow or with a curved
bow on nearly limp strands.
This last effect was especially
disagreeable, producing a
strong scraping noise with only
the faintest hint of the note coming through. On several occasions I thought that I could hear
more than one note (presumably
overtones in the instrument) and
I found myself contemplating
not the music but the sort of
acoustic waveform that would
result from mixing of the primary note with its first harmonic. It was at this point that
Physics 121 started rearing its
ugly head: let's see, that would
be A sin(wt + d) + B cos(wt +
d), but d is 0, so it must be
something like A sin(wt) + B
cos(wt) + An sin(2wt) + Bn
cos(2wt)....oh wait, is the music still playing? If the purpose
of the work was a meditation
then I guess it failed on me, but
then perhaps the fault is my
own. I know Cage is considered
to be a musical great, and the
audience was impressively
quiet, so maybe it was just my
own shallowness. Whatever, I
didn't really like the piece very
much and can't say I would like
to hear it again, although it
wasn't outright offensive or irritating like some modern
works. If I should ever want to
relive the experience, I think I
could just as well sit in the dark
and contemplate a dripping tap.
After the intermission the
program continued with a short
work for solo cello written and
performed by Michael Bach
(Bachtischia). Entitled "C-A-G-
El," the work is described as a
short homage in memory of
John Cage, to be performed in
the pitches (you guessed it) C,
A, G, and E. A clever idea, I'll
admit, but not much to listen to.
It was, as near as I could tell,
just more of the last work but
with a few different notes
thrown in for variety. Mercifully, it was a short work and
Mercifully? Well, I had expected     the     final     work,
Bernd Alois Zimmermann, to be
a reprieve. Written for piano
and cello in early 1967, the
work was described by its composer as being best considered
a combination of two separate
solo pieces in which the piano
and cello eventually come together to form a single work.
If this was two solo pieces
then the piano was really shortchanged. Most of the work consisted of long drawn-out single
tones on the cello with (very)
occasional triple forte outbursts
of atonality from the piano. As
the work progressed I did note
that these interruptions became
somewhat more frequent, but I
never thought that they complemented or accented the cello in
a way that I would expect in a
single unified work. Also, as the
work neared its end the cello
part become increasingly discordant and finally lost what little appeal was left by switching
to rapid and harsh pizzicato
playing. The program notes
state that "Zimmermann's music does not travel well." All the
better if this was a representa-
I left the concert in disappointment. Although I liked the
first work in a strange way and
I can admit that the works by
Cage and Bach(tischa) took tal
ent to perform and perhaps were
just over my head, I can't really
excuse this final work or even
take it seriously. I am afraid that
fallen into the trap of thinking
that anything new and strange is
artistic. Perhaps the roots of the
problem lie even deeper, as the
program notes quote him as
stating that the piano and cello
'are too distinctive to allow for
a smoothly operating combination.' I beg to differ; I have
heard any number of works in
which the two do an excellent
job of complementing each
other. The problem, Herr
Zil
n the ii
but in the composer.
I would go on, but it seems
that I am running out of space
for this month and must get on
to an overview of what's to be
found in October's musical calendar. Since we're on the subject of the Vancouver New Music Society, I should start by
mentioning that they will be
premiering an opera written by
their own music director, Owen
Underhill. Called Star Catalogs,
it is described as the 'dream of
a dying astronomer', with mysticism, alchemy, heresy, and
truth. I have to admit it sounds
interesting and I may find myself going to one of the performances which will be on the 21 st,
23rd, 26th, 28th, and 29th of the
month at the Russian Hall (600
Campbell St.). All performances are at 8:00 and tickets are
available at CBO (280-2801).
The VSO starts off this years
Great Composers series with a
concert of W.A. Mozart's
"Overture to Marriage of
Figaro," the "Symphonia
Concertante for Winds," the
"Divertimento for Strings," and
the ever-popular "Symphony
No.40." The concert is at the
Orpheum at 8:00 pm on the 1st
and 3rd of October and will be
proceeded by a half-hour talk on
the life of Mozart to be held in
the Patron's Lounge at 7:00. It
will also be presented at 2:00pm
on the 2nd, but without the
In the VSO's "Tea and
Trumpets" series, CBC host
Otto Lowy will assist conductor Clyde Mitchell in leading
the symphony in a program
about the life and music of
Antonin Dvorak. The program
will include some of the composer's wonderful Slavonic
Dances in a performance at
the Orpheum on October the
12th at 2:00 pm. If you're
more into the 'Pops', Newton
Wayland will lead the orchestra in Big Band Memories,
featuring music by many of
the swing-era greats on the
14th and 15th at 8:00.
Finally, as a celebration of
the VSO's 75th year, the Vancouver Bach Choir and guest
soloists including Judith
Forst, Jon Kimura Parker,
Corey Cerovsek, Edith Wiens
and Tracy Dahl join the orchestra in a program of oper-
composers including Elgar,
Tchaikovsky, Strauss and
Bernstein. Additionally, Canadian composer Jean
Coulhardt's commissioned
"Celebration Fanfare" will be
premiered. This evening of assorted musical tidbits will on
the 7th at 7:00 pm.
The Friends of Chamber
Music Society will open their
47th season with the London
Chamber Orchestra in a program of Britten's "Simple
Symphony," Elgar's "Serenade," Vivaldi's "Concerto
for Two Violins," and Bartok's
"Divertimento" on the 18th, at
8:00 in the Playhouse.
Early Music Vancouver's
season opener will be on the
29th, featuring the Pacific Baroque Orchestra in a program
with works by Bach, Handel,
and Avison to be held at 8:00
at the Metropolitan Tabernacle, 189 W. 11th Avenue.
I'm out of space for this
time, so until next month good
listening!
HEY VANCOUVER!
COME TO SEATTLE!
Get some of the best
affordable sounds in the Northwest at
Vagrant Records
Studio
8 TRACKS
Reasonable Rates
Negotiable Fees
Satisfaction Guaranteed
(206)525-0625
WE TAKE CANADIAN CURRENCY!
9     52L^2EgS Get that-^^k
academic
monster *~-r f lPi?3[^pQ
your bac       ^Bpr^:
GREAT MUSIC, 4     \ ^
FOOD, DRINKS,     .   ,
AND MAJOI    ' f/     ';»   W^f*C/
LEAGUE SPORTS
ON OUR IWO V,
BIG SCREENS
'-. .
,..-"::■-*.
3*^ i
LIVE EVERY TUESDAY, THE NEUROTICS!
And absolutely no cover!
LIVE BANDS EVERY
THURSDAY NIGHT!
ADMISSION IS FREEH
r PUB »!N THE BASEMENT OF THE STUDEMT UNION B
presents.-
iHdid
Oct 11
OroverFur
Universal Lounge Act
Arthur Ellis
Oct I
The Papillomas
T8A
R Oct25
Squeeky
Marjorie Cardwell
Orbit in Bloom
Come on down to the Railway @
572 Dunsmuir Street
Check out hot local bands every Tuesday
Plus the ever-popular "jokes for beer"
10   October 1994 Sparser andpoppiersounding than
its predecessor Smeared, Sloan's
second full length album, Twice
Removed, has brought the band to
greater heights of popularity in
Canada while at the same time surpassing the quality that they 've displayed in previous recordings.
Breaking out of Halifax, Nova
Scotia couldn 't have been easy, but
in the two years since Sloan's Geffen
debut was released literally dozens
of other bands from the Atlantic region have received unprecedented
exposure throughout Canada and
the rest of the world. I spoke with
Patrick Pentland of Sloan just before their fantastic show with fellow Halifax band Thrush Hermit at
the Howden Ballroom on September 10...
Twice Removed is a lot different
than Smeared: What did Geffen
think of the sound of this one?
There were people who had heard
it as it was being made and before
it was mixed - I think it waa the
higher up people that don't even listen to the records, but who try to
make the decisions - 'We don't
know how to market this because
we tried to market you one way and
now you're a different way' - and
you know, we made the record and
we knew we were probably going
to take a lot of flack for it but we
made it anyway because we wanted
to. We're still on Geffen as far as I
know - that could change - but I
don't know. The response has been
more positive since the record has
been out. They were sort of taken
aback but not hke 'We couldn't put
this out - you guys are going to have
to do something...'
I thought the new album waa very
Posies-esque...
I guess so...Yeah, the Posies are a
good example of a band who made
a record and the label didn't hke it
and told 'em to go do it again. It
can happen, but you gotta kinda
play the game a little bit, you know?
People have to be able to
work with you and you
have to be able to work with
people; I think it's a trade
off sometimes, like everything else in life. But we're
very comfortable with the
record.
How long are you on
Geffen for?
Well, it's a six record deal,
including Peppermint - that
was thrown in as maybe
something for the future.
There's an op'jon period
coming up and they could
very well scy 'See ya later,'
but I don't think they will.
And if they did, well, we've
got Murder.
Sloan are responsible for \
Halifax'new-found fame \>
for reasons other than their i
own     performing     or |
songwriting    abilities:
Murderecords is a record |;
label that is owned and operated by the members of
Sloan and Colin McKenzie
Starting out with a release ;
of Sloan's first EP Pepper- |
mint, the label has since \
gone on to release CDs, j
and seven inchers for
bands from the region like Eric's
Trip, Thrush Hermit, and Hardship
Post, to name afew.
How much are you involved in
Murderecords?
We're totally involved in the corn-
All four equally?
No, it's more Jay than anybody
else...and then Chris and then me -
Andrew lives in Toronto so he's not
really involved that much. We're
there working every day when
we're at home whether it's just a few
hours or all day. The whole point of
it isn't to make money these days,
it's just to promote some bands in
the area so they can tour - like
Thrush Hermit are now with us and
have something to sell, they've got
a publishing deal and look eventually at [being on] a bigger label.
Hardship Post just signed with
SubPop, so it's working as a success in those terms. I think in the
future it'd be nice if it could make
enough money to at least float itself and help us put out bigger
projects, but for now at least we' ve
got a distribution deal with MCA
(in Canada) which helps a lot.
Is anything happening with
Murder   in
the States?
distribution within a year, which
would help a lot, because it's really
difficult to get Thrush Hermit or
whatever in those cities. The people at Geffen are helping us out with
that too, like calling people [and
saying] 'Checkout Murderecords -
this band Sloan are on this label!'
How much control do you let the
bands on Murder have?
At first it was going to be complete
control for the bands, but then we
realized that not all bands have an
idea of what they want to do for artwork or what they want to do for
this or that. Hardship Post are pretty
self-sufficient - Thrush Hermit as
well - but Hip Club Groove didn't
know what to do and we sorta had
to help them out.
Hip Club Groove are opening for
you on part of this tour...
Yeah, in Ontario - Superfriendz and
Hip Club Groove are going to be
meeting up with us in Thunder Bay.
They're going to do eleven shows
with us.
Hip Club Groove are hip-hop:
How do your audiences react to
that?
They've never been outside of Halifax so we'll have to wait and see. I
guess the people who see us are a
little more open-minded [so] it
wouldn't be such a big shock to
have a hip-hop band [opening].
Superfriendz are a little more
power-pop or something stripped
down a bit - even that might be a
bit weird. But I think it'll be an interesting show - unfortunately not
out here.
In the past Halifax bands would
go to Montreal or Toronto and
then break up - no one ever made
it out of Halifax: Did you ever
consider leaving?
The fall before things started to happen, Chris and I didn't have girlfriends and Andrew wanted to move
to Toronto because his fiancee lives
there. We were sort of considering
moving to Toronto more just for fun,
just for a change of scenery, and
then when things started to happen
we were away so much anyway we
didn't want to go to Toronto, there
wasn't a reason for us to leave. Now
even if I wanted to move I probably
couldn't, not just because of the per
ception, but [because of] the business end of everything - and our
management's there. We get to see
so many other big cities anyway...
How's the reception in the Stales?
It's a bit up and down: It's good up
on the eastern states and near the
borders, but otherwise we've still
got a lot of work to do.
Had you already had some level
of success on the eastern seaboard
with Halifax being relatively
close?
Yeah, we've been there more. I
think in the States to make any headway you have to keep going there
all the time, and then people will get
to know your name because you're
always playing.
Do you find that you like bands
less because they get popular?
No, I don't tend to do that -1 don't
know that Chris does either. I think
that that can happen though, I think
that's something that we always
feel: If you're in the public eye
more, you're more likely to get
picked apart or 'Oh they're big time
now, I hate them, I like tliis little
band more.' That's cool,
but I was never into
lhat. If my
vourite band got huge, that'd be
great - hke when Nirvana got so big
I'm sure there were people saying
they sold out and that's ridiculous,
it's just more people hke their mu-
People I know in Halifax keep
telling me it's so small - they'll sec
you on the corner or in a bar, and
you're just..yourselves: Is there
any of that stardom in Halifax
towards yourselves or other
No, I don't think so. It's hard to tell
because the people we hang out
with all the time are people in those
bands, you know? Or else just
friends who've known us for a long
time...but we don't get stopped and
asked for autographs or anything
hke that. Sometimes we get people
yelling at us from across the street,
"Sloan Sucks!" and you gotta think
a) "I hope they don't beat us up,"
and b) at least they know who you
In addition to the work being done
through Murderecords, the east
coast music scene is also gaining
attention through SloanNet, an
internet discussion group/mailing
list that was set up by friends of the
band in the last year. To subscribe,
send the message "SUBSCRIBE" to
gen4114+sloan<& husky l.stmarys.
How does it feel to have something like SloanNet named after
your band?
It's a bit weird - it's kinda spooky. I
actually went on it -1 was at Cliff's
(Cliff Gibb, drummer of Thrush
Hermit and regular contributor to
SloanNet) house and we were up 'til
like four in the morning drinking
beer and I said, "Get me on this
thing! 1 wanna check it out!" because I had never seen it. I ran
through it and left all these messages - it was really stupid. But it's
interesting...I guess they do discuss
Sloan and other bands and I think
that's really good for the area.
I think it's helped a lot
[with] promotion for the
bands, but I think it's more
just a forum for people to
talk, and they could talk
about anything...
There's been comment
about changing the
name because there
wasn't enough talk
about Sloan!
I guess it's cool that they
named it after us, but it's
also weird because
there'll be these items
Cliff was telling me
about... 'Chris Murphy
was seen in the university
bar with somebody...'
You guys were spotted
leaving   the   airport
fJ Thursday morning.
Oh really?  Some of the
stuff is so ridiculous to
Some of it does get a little trivial...
As long as it doesn't get Ahhh, I can rest sweetly at night now. The
new Lush album, Split, is finally out.
They're touring. Life is good. A while ago,
lead singer Emma gave DiSCORDER's
own Shazia Islam a half-hour of her valuable time to discuss the trials and traumas of an aspiring, somewhat famous
young artist. Subjects from politics to
techno were on Emma's mind that day
and she had no trouble getting them out
of her head and on to our tape. For your
reading ease, weVe gone one step further and committed them to paper.
DiSCORDER: Why was there
such a delay before Split came
out?
Emma: To us it wasn't such a massive gap because we've been working continuously since the last album. We toured for a whole year in
1992, finishing in December. When
we started writing in January, we
wrote about sixteen songs, demoed
them in June, looked for a producer
- which took three months - found
Mike Hedges, started working in
October, finished in April because
we had to remix the whole album
again with Alan Moulder, and then
it was released in June. So it was a
long time but there wasn't a big
break where we weren't doing anything. I think people think we just
took time off working or something.
Spooky did quite well. Was there
a lot of hype for Split?
Well, you know, there were a lot of
expectations, but I don't think anyone really knew what to expect. It
was like 'How is it going to be received?' I think we did pretty well.
It hasn't charted as high as Spooky
did, but we still held our ground
pretty well. But hype - what do you
A lot of expectations, I guess.
Well there was obviously expectations by a lot of peopi I hope we
fulfilled them.
Who did the arrangements?
Well, myself and Miki do all the
writing and we arrange everything
from the bass to the rhythm guitar
[to] the backing vocals to everything. Apart from the strings - we'
ve got strings on four songs on the
album and we got outside arrangers to do that - myself and Miki do
everything really.
How did you meet up with Mike
Hedges?
We sent him a demo in June, actually, and he didn't really reply to us
for awhile. We fried other people in
between but they couldn't do it or
they weren't into it or they just
couldn't fit in the time. Then we
thought 'Oh, what happened to
Mike Hedges?' So someone phoned
him up and he said, 'Oh yes, I really liked that tape and I think I
could probably do it' We talked to
him and had a long chat with him
and it worked out really well because he wanted to do a co-production [and] that suited us fine.
What was it like recording at Abbey Road? I mean, did you feel
close to the Beatles at all?
Well, we were only at Abbey Road
for like a week [and] we weren't in
studio two which is the Beatles' studio. We were up in the penthouse,
just a small little studio up at the
top. It had these really flashy mix-
it was hke.
What were some of your major
musical influences for this album?
I don't think we've been listening
to any music that was that different
to what we normally listened to
from before. I mean, I think that this
album is very diverse. You've got
sort of punky, poppy songs like
"Hypocrite" and "Blackout" and
then you' ve got obviously the
slower songs hke "Never Never"
and "Desire Lines." To mention
bands that have influenced us - anything from Joy Division to Blondie
to Wire to Siouxie and the Banshees
to Tim Buckley. It's very diverse.
Everyone in the band has quite different tastes in music really.
A lot of songs on Split deal with
personal issues like unhappiness
and depression • can you tell me
a bit about that?
We've always written about personal experience really - all our
songs in the past have been autobiographical. I think people are
picking up on the lyrics a lot more
now because you can hear them
whereas you couldn't really in the
past. The theme is quite introspective, but that's not to say that we're
depressed people. I just did an interview and the guy was going on
about 'Oh your life is such a mess'
- it isn't actually. I think it's just a
bit of therapy writing songs about
problems you've had in the past and
just getting them out. But it's not
to say that the songs are haunting
Your album sleeve certainly looks
interesting. What are the books
there for? There are pictures of
like stacks of books.
The photos of the lemons and the
books and the sticks are Vorn' s
work who usually does the sleeves.
This guy sent him all these photos
and he really liked them. He's got
loads of others - hke a paperbag, a
lampshade - things like that. Very
stark images. I think they're quite
good. It suits the record quite well
'cause I think the record is quite
stark. When we first saw the sleeve,
we had cold feet about it actually. It
was so different from the things
Vorn has done for us. But we hke it
What inspired you to write "Love
Life"?
I sat there thinking what should I
write this song about. Well, why not
London, because it's obviously
very important to me. Especially
when you go on tour and you're
away from home a lot. I mean,
there's so many good things about
London and so many bad things and
I tried to put that in the song. There's
sort of a darkside, but I still love it
here. I'll probably never leave. It's
such a great city. A bit dirty though.
Are you guys involved politically
at all? 'Cause England has a very
colourful political scene.
We never sang about politics as a
band. We've done some political
things like we gave a track to the
anti-poll tax album [and] we did an
anti-racism thing last year. We've
never got that involved with rallies and the hke because we've not
that political lyrically, you see.
There's a lot of bands who sing
just about politics, racism and sexism. But obviously it effects your
life. I think people, from what I
can tell, are more political here
than in America - kids, that is. I
guess it's just more in your face
How did you feel about being
lumped in with the 'shoegazer'
bands back when it was a pretty
popular label?
Well it wasn't particularly pleasant. It was a very negative tag. It
was like 'Oh here are all these introspective, middle-class bands
and Mummy's given them their
guitars and they play this music
that's so lightweight and it's got
no substance." That's what it was
really, so at the time it was a bit
irritating - especially since we
started three years before that But
these things pass. No one mentions the word 'shoegazer'
anymore over here. They're onto
newer things now.
How did it affect your band to
be labelled shoegazers? I understand there was a lot of bad press
and pressure involved?
I think we did okay because there
were some other bands who did
get lumped in with that shoegazer
scene who got a really bad deal in
the press. Namely Chapterhouse
and Slowdive. They were not even
slagged off but just ignored because of this shoegazer rubbish.
But we managed to keep going
and keep getting good coverage
and people are still interested. I
think it also has to do with personality. I think our personalities
were quite opposite to the introspective thing. We're actually outgoing and lively people, (laughs)
Then on the Hypocrite EP there's
actually people called Spooky who
remixed the track "Undertow" on
the album and we used that as an
intro tape. A lot of it is really good,
very experimental and very sort of
new sounding. But then there's a lot
of rubbish as well, (laughs) And it's
not really dance music anymore. It
definitely came out of the dance
scene but it's getting into more electronic music.
So what do you think of
Slowdive's 5 EP? The techno influence is there. I never heard it.
(laughs) Have you ever heard of a
band called C-Field?
No.
They're a bit like that. Hard techno
with guitar and female vocals. I
don't know if they've made it over
to North America. Maybe one day.
Do you think you benefited from
the exposure you got playing
LoUapalooza in '92?
Yeah. I mean, we were going on
about one o'clock in the afternoon
so we weren't playing to a full house
- most people wanted to see Pearl
Jam or the Chili Peppers. But it obviously got our name out a lot more
[and] we sold a lot more records.
There were some really nice people - all the bands were very supportive. They weren't hke 'Oh well,
I'm in Ministry and I'm not interested in little Lush.' It was very
equal. We had a good time. And I
think in America, people are a lot
more supportive and open-minded
then they tend to be here.
Really?!
Yeah. People here tend to be a lot
more snobby hke, 'Well you're not
trendy so I don't know what to say
to you.' It's a bit like that over here.
When is your sound heading? Is
it going to be much the same
stuff?
en about.
:'- personale^^l^c^really ^
; past
graphic '
)le are pic!
i lyrics a lot more now
because you can hear them
whereas you couldn't re
in the past."
There's been a great rise in
techno music in England. What
are your thoughts on this scene?
I really like some of it I mean,
we've got a remix; we've had a
few techno remixes done actually.
We had one done by the Drum
Club - they did a remix of a track
called "Stray" which is on Spooky.
Jt's hard to say if the songs haven't
been written yet I think we're getting better all the time.
Well, it was great talking to you
and I think I speak for all of you
fans when I say that we hope to
see you here one day soon.
One day. We'll try.
It   October 1994 PTTWERK
"I still don't think I've grasped even a port of what's ii
this release, but I keep going back for more, entering I
this strange, sometimes shocking world nearly alone,   "
accompanied only by a dictionary, a bible of cultural
references, and the emergency pager number of a
competent therapist." Georgia Sfroight
Monday
October 31
Queen Elizabeth Theatre
9:30 p.m.
On Sale Now!
Tickets available at all
■ Outlets,
or Charge By Phone 280-4444
[}ljt|        Management: Nigel Best Management Int. (905)619-6767 HM,£(,)!
I£il£j (ontatt Barenaked ladles at baienaked1@aol.tomor NBXTC@aol.tom   E»t ihm
f3 s^^a^ A slimy thing happened to me on the
way to the New York Theatre to see
Grrrlapallooza, the September 10th show
featuring music by Fracas, Yvette, Ten
Days Late, Sook-Yin Lee, Tickle Trunk and
Bif Naked, plus spoken word by Trish
Kelly and art work by Jamie Gri ffiths, Lisa
Hill and Suzanne MacRury.
While I was waiting for my bus a guy
walked across the street, asked me how I
was doing, and then retreated to his side of
the street where his car and his girlfriend/
lover/wife were waiting for rum. They immediately ducked into the car so she could
yell at him for awhile, and then, apparently
appeased, the two of them started to fool
around. In the middle of their 'getting it
on,' Mr. Wrong turned around and winked
at me. She caught the glance, smacked him,
and they swiftly switched back to fight
mode again. Within two minutes they were
back in necking mode, this time taking
turns watching me. Then my bus pulled up.
They cranked up their seats and drove
away, leaving me wondering how I had
somehow been both the stimulus for and
spectator of that little sex show. (I would
rate Ihe experience a 7 on the Slime Factor
Scale where 1 is bone dry and 10 is oozing).
Needless to say, I was pretty anxious
to escape into the safe confines of the
chick-friendly Grrrlapallooza space that
night when I finally arrived at the New
York Theatre. I'd already had enough crap
for one evening and it was
only 8 o'clock.
The organizers of
genres together," said Meegan. "They had
a few folky kinds of people and us — whatever we are — and Pansy Division and Fifth
Column. So, yeah, I guess that was the idea.
It was sort of a first for the Music West
Conference to have something that was unified under one flag instead of being just a
bunch of bands thrown together."
"It was run well, but initially we had a
lot of reservations about being part of it
because we didn't really want to be pigeonholed. We'd never presented ourselves in
the scene as being a dyke band. We don't
really write about that. To us it's a separate issue from our music. As a lyric writer
I look at us a strong women's band. I think
we're more about women's issues than gay
issues. So we had a lot of reservations. But
Fifth Column was on the bill and they're a
band thai we respect. They've been around
for a long lime. They're feminist They're
pretty strong about what they're doing.
That made it seem like we had allegi
Unlike Stonewall was a Riot which ■
a specifically queer event, Grrrlapalc
didn't demand of its perfo
investment in exposing their identities - it
was quite obvious thai almost everyone on
stage was a girl.
"Exactly," said Meegan. "We're not
coming out as girls."
As a newcomer to Vancouver I've been
totally impressed by the strength of the local music scene, especially by the number
of women involved. But I've been equally
disappointed by how apolitical the scene
is. Vancouver band members may use their
songs and their music to present their views
on countless issues from date rape to apartheid, but it's rare that you see a whole group
of bands playing together to support a
cause. In the face of this kind of apathy, I
was really excited when I heard about
Grrrlapallooza because I knew the organ-
the same women who had put
together the Rock for Choice cassette compilation and show as a fund-raiser for a local women's health centre last spring. I
asked Meegan how that show went.
"I thought it was a big success. There
were a lot more people than I'd thought
they're would be. Definitely I"
came from the younger s
grrrls — which is very cool. I totally re
spect those women, but there was a huge
lack of an older audience. I guess maybe
you have to appeal to them some other
I pointed out that all of the bands who
played at the Rock for Choice show were
pretty much entrenched in the punk scene,
which is mosdy supported by a younger
crowd these days. Grrrlapallooza, on the
other hand, featured a much more diverse
group of performers.
"I think so," agreed Meegan. "That was
definitely a consideration when we were
deciding who was going to headline. Bif
Naked comes from a completely different
scene. She has her own following that has
nothing to with the other bands."
Granted I'm new to the Vancouver
, but Rock for Choice was the first
e I'd encountered a project here that integrated politics and music. I was recently
in Ottawa where events such as Rock
Against Racism happen all the time and I
wanted to know whether or not there was
any sort of history between politics and
i Vancouver. Meegan isn't a real
ir in the scene either, but she agreed
that there didn't seem to an abundance of
politics meshing with music in the city. The
one politically active community she did
identify was the punk scene, who, she said,
put on the Food Not Bombs show and incorporate a political edge in their m
Getting back to the topic of the Rock
for Choice show, I asked Meegan about the
s of that show in terms of raising
money. Along with bands - all of which
played for free - the show featured speakers from the BC Coalition for Abortion
Clinics and the actual women's health centre that funds were being raised for and
raised two thousand dollars. Five hundred
of those dollars went to Rock for Choice
in the States, a condition that was not entirely agreed upon when the project was
first undertaken.
"There was a miscommunication," explained Meegan. "I contacted Rock for
Choice in L.A. and started the project in
conjunction with them — they helped me
along the way with ideas and sent me information. I don't think anyone had e
done a Rock for Choice show in Canada
simply for the reason that we don't have
5 problems here. In order to use
their monicker and tag the event under
Rock for Choice and sell their merchandise most of the money was actually supposed to go to them, and I didn't under-
£y kmis+4 JweS' stand that initially. But at some point it
became clear to them that I had already
contacted a local clinic and had promised
to give the money to them. So the people
in LA. were flexible; I felt that it was fair
to give them a quarter of the money. But
the money from the tapes is all staying local and I'm making batch upon batch of
that tape - they've been selling all across
Despite the success of the Rock for
Choice Meegan decided against making
Grrrlapalooza a fund-raiser. She felt that
if it was to have a political edge it would
be better lo have information booths. As
well, she wanted to be able to pay the bands
playing the show. g^   sss"wP^
"I'm in a band and I know it's brutal.
You can do benefit upon benefit, and, it's
great be a part of stuff hke that but at some
point you've got to buy guitar strings."
As a showcase of women talent,
Grrrlapallooza was by definition politically
charged: It targeted a particular subset of
the population and gave them a forum. And
in borrowing from riot grrrl feminism the
visual appearance of its title, the event
claimed all the connotations that go along
with the 'grrl" spelling: girl opinions, girl
emotions, and more importantly, girl power
and girl control. Grrrlapallooza was organized and operated by women in order to let
women speak. The growl implicit in the
word grrrl is not a coincidence. It means
that Grrrl zones are those where we can
turn the tables around and be in control. If
you're astute enough to notice that growls
usually imply aggression then you're probably also observant enough to notice that
women have a lot of reasons to be angry.
Riot grrrl 'zines and music are important ways for young women to communicate and affirm each other. But just as riot
grrrl 'zines are meant to be read by guys as
well as girls so that guys can glean some
insight into the girlworld, Grrrlapallooza
was pretty much out there for the entertainment of anyone willing to listen and
Over two hundred and fifty people
showed up (including a reporter and photographer for European EUe). It was probably the most diverse crowd I've ever seen
at a gig in Vancouver. With a ratio of three
females to every one male, there were representatives of many different age groups
and races. The variety of the performers
was probably a major reason for the variety of the crowd.
Fracas, a three piece from Victoria,
started out the show. They were awesomely
fast and frantic, if almost incomprehensi
ble in the vocals department. But their best
stuff was purely instrumental, the most
memorable piece beginning with the wail:
"Mom, sometimes I just don't feel fresh!"
I felt very at home right away.
I don't think very many people had
heard of Yvette before she took the stage
that night with her acoustic guitar. Once
she started to play, however, she completely
mesmerized the audience. It was hke ani
difranco had given a surprise performance.
Yvette sang so loudly and beautifully that
it almost hurt to listen to her. The thoughts
she revealed made me feel that I'd walked
in on a conversation I wasn't supposed to
hear. Someone sitting on the floor nearby
summed up my feelings with the declaration, "Who is this women. She's fucking
amazing!"
Trish, the spoken word artist for the
night was somewhat shy and quiet at first,
so much so that I felt sympathathelic nervousness for this small person who was unable to hide behind the safety of a either
band or an instrument. But as her performance progressed she seemed to grow bigger and stronger until her whispers seemed
yells. Twenty teen-aged girls mobbed her
as she walked off the stage, depleting her
'zine reserve completely.
At this point in the show I was thinking
that while I was having a super time and
appreciating the respect people were showing the performers by sitting quietly on the
floor, I began to wish the audience would
get off their butts and party. I was pretty
happy when Ten Days Late hit the stage
and rocked everyone off their feet and into
the mosh pit. (Yvette was, by the way, the
most dangerous woman in the pit) They
played a great high energy set that was
punctuated by frequent on-stage collisions
of the guitarists and their vampire-like lead
singer
Tickle Trunk played the best set I'd ever
seen them play, complete with Meegan's
incredible David Lee Roth-like aerobics
and frequent clutches of a nonexistent cock.
Their enthusiasm both won over and exhausted the audience.
After that the crowd stayed at the stage.
Sook-Yin, who claimed that Ten Days Late
was her new favourite band, entertained the
audience with vibrator stories. (I think she
collects them.) She ended her set with a
piece she called "Vocal Improv With Vibrator" whereupon she brought a turn of
the century vibrator on stage, turned it on
beside the mic and then mumbled, hummed
and sneezed alongside her sex toy.
When Bif Naked finally got on stage by
herself, decked out in a flowery Beverly
Hills 90210 dress, 1980's Nike runners and
lots of tattoos, the crowd was pretty happy
to just sit down and watch her. Her first
few pieces were spoken word and she delivered them hypnotically on knobby knees
while taking frequent drags of a cigarette
that she looked almost too young to smoke.
Then her band came on stage and she warbled tunes in a whiskey-and-cigarette
abused voice, played a bit of air guitar, and
got every one up and dancing again.
There were moments that I lapsed into
the feeling that Grrrlapallooza was just another run-of-the-mill rock show with decent bands, but little things happened all
night to remind me that this gig was especially cool: I caught a glimpse of two
women necking between sets; I discovered
a pro-choice banner on a wall; a woman
dedicated a song to her wife; slides of the
work of local women artists accompanied
the musical performances. It was the little
details that made Grrrlapalloza special.
Reccurring themes in the songs and stories included abusive fathers, voyeurism,
rape and sisterhood. If you are accustomed
to having your experience reflected in lyrics at local gigs, then this might not strike
you as a big deal. But then you're probably also a boy, you're most likely white,
and you're almost certainly straight.
Grrrlapallooza was a direct response to the
saturation of the music industry with
straight white male voices.
People often cry reverse sexism in response to women-focused even's. But if
anyone wants to give Meegan a hard time,
she's prepared.
"I'm sure there's mumblings and
grumblings: why aren't there guy bands?!
But there's millions of guy bands that play
all the fuckin' time...And there were men
playing: Bif Naked has guys in her band
and Fracas has a male drummer. It's not
like you had to be an all women's band.
It's about women's energy."
According to Yvette, "a women's thing
is always kind of special because there is
always a really interesting energy when you
get a whole bunch of women in one room.
I never knew any of these performers. But
tonight I felt that women will take over the
You can buy a copy of the Rock for Choice
cassette compilation in Vancouver for $7
at Zulu, Sam's or Scratch records. For further information on Rock for Choice contact Meegan Maultsaid at 2475 West 14th
ave., Vancouver, BC, V6R 2W4.
?W>Vs by
A ferfotuil ionvwitr Wa( TVettM karAtfKrietit *t*ft*ife«
ur\y tkcory i(. wken you're WAlkmtj tow* tkt (tmt
mul tjoWre -feeliM*) iknkttnUj «t atOAj. Start talkitit) to
yowjelf. Veil. Walk Witk a weir* livnf. I <dw*irj( U*j ttun«*{
Ifa. toftf tariotken ***** fro*" <ket(e! Tkere *re ele^uuttt i'h
tfce keliforterT X****
«*£>*'**1>1***
.$$>&£
•**£"w
7 ***/„.
s?8***
A CHANCE TO FEEL     I
TIC*
ON SALE THIS MONTH:
LIZ PHAIR  ° Whip Smart...
..49.87 LP/cass $15.93 CD
SPARKMARKER - Product! and Accessories. $8.55 CD
SMOG o Burni/ij Kingdom $7.90 LP/cass $10.52 CD
VARIOUS o Rock Stars Kill $9.87 LP 12.93 CD
| THINKING FELLERS UNION L 282 ° Stra-fw (1.17 LP/cass $14.92 CD
I ARCHERS OF LOAF • The 6reotert of ill Time $7.9010H/CD
SCREECHING WEASEL • How *• m< em-**—41.17 lp/c»« $1193 cd
ERIC'S TRIP 0 Forever Again $8.99 cass $14.92 CD
BUM ° I am Superwoman $13.81 CD
IOUTPUNK DANCE PARTY■ q««* m c^,.,.„.ii,»s lno» sun cd
SCRATCH PRESENTS
from japan, Sh/mmy Disc Recording Artists
Ruins
with guests from Son Francisco
Hedgehog
ond Scratch Recording Artists
Roughage
mm
311A CAMBIE STREET
I VANCOUVER P.C.CANADA V6B »«*I
NEW PHONE NUMBER! 687-6355   1
THE BEST IN LIVE
RHYTHM & BLUES
EACH NIGHT
1300GRANVILLE(ATDRAKE)
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL
681-YALE
n
Oct 3 CAL BACHELOR BAND
Oct 4,8 DEBBIE DAVIES
Oct IO DOC FINGERS BAND
Oct I 1,12 BIG DAVE & THE
ULTRASONICS
Oct 13-15 WAILIN* WALKER BAND
Oct    17-19       AL FOREMAN BAND
Oct 20-22 TERRY EDMUNDS 4BIG
BAND'
Oct 24,25 CLYDE ROULETTE BAND
Oct 26 RIP TAYLOR BAND
Oct 27,28,29 JIM BYRNES BAND
Oct 31 EDDIE KIRKLAND BAND
OPEN EACH NIGHT FROM 9:30 PM TO 1:30 AM OPEN WEEKDAYS FROM 11:30 AM
It   October 1994 This is a happy story with a Canadian ending: Once upon a time, in
the quiet berg called Hamilton - a
town more well known for football
and donuts than for music (though
it's home to such Canadian musical
legends Teenage Head, the Spoons
("Romantic Traffic"), and the Forgotten Rebels ("Surfin'on Heroin")
- a poppy little band began. The
band became known as Tristan
Psionic and consisted of Sandy
Mcintosh and Mark Milne on guitars and vocals, Ross 'Tim'
McLochness on drums and Wool on
bass. Mark explains how they got
their unusual monicker:
"Originally [the name] came
from our bass player's dog, Tristan.
We found some pictures in some
guitar magazine of some heavy
metal guy going by
- a comic onion with a big, fat, orbiting satellite ring. In line with their
off-beat 'Canadian' sense of humour, the two Unyonheads also created a mascot named Mr. Stinky. An
onion himself, Mr. Stinky appears
on all Sonic Unyon products sporting superfly sneakers and a cartoon-
balloon salutation: "smell ya later."
And, as a Sonic Unyon press release
points out, the choice of a stinking
vegetable as a mascot is in keeping
with the all-Canadian aspect of the
project: "French onion soup is made
with onions and we all know
Canada is part French."
As is the case in any local independent music scene, rising bands
depend on promotion primarily
through live gigs in the early stages
of their careers. With this in
says Mark.
As the Sonic Unyon family grew
larger, so did the company's band
roster. Each newly signed band released a cassette for the label and
the final products feature top-notch
sound, packaging and production.
Tliis attention to quality is now a
trademark for Sonic Unyon products. "Too many people in this business are totally unprofessional," laments Sandy in Eye Weekly.
Not ones to alienate the CD-only
crowd, the Unyonheads recently released a compilation of Sonic
Unyon bands that featured tracks
not available on cassette. Not If I
Smell You First features twelve stellar bands, including the likes of Toronto's hi lead and By Divine Right,
Eric's Trip, Otis Haynes (with two
members of Sloan), a solo effort by
Chris of Eric's Trip, and the Sonic
Unyon players, Gleet (now
Sian), Gorp, Shal-
had to add another
We put all these pieces of paper in
a hat and picked out Psionic. It
means psionic powers, and we
thought the dog might have some
kind of mental telepathic powers we
don't know about. Kind of a silly
The foursome played, and
played hard. Soon all the kids on the
block were talking about the hot
new band and things were looking
up. But - what next? How would the
world find out about these talented
young men? With their feet firmly
planted in Hamilton soil, the band
resisted the temptation to sell their
souls to any of the countless hungry American interests and instead
decided to do it themselves. Mark
and Sandy started their OWN record
company.
One of the duo's first moves was
to establish an original name accompanied by a fresh logo that local concert goers and record buyers
would recognize. Thus was bom
Sonic Unyon Records and their logo
and with their name, logo, and fun
mascot in place, the Unyonheads
started to promote their company
through sponsorship of local Hamilton-area gigs. Conscientiously deciding to support an all-ages scene,
Sonic Unyon presentations soon
generated their own following and
the label's notoriety quickly spread.
"We didn't want to start a scene, but
we've made one," Mark apologetically was quoted in the Ontarion.
"We didn't mean to.
Scene or no scene, the word of
mouth generated by live gigs will
only take a band so far; eventually
some form of recording network is
needed to distribute their sound to
a successively broader range of listeners. Sonic Unyon began their
own homegrown distribution network recording local musicians under the Unyon label: "Sandy and I
started putting out cassettes - one
of Tristan Psionic and another by a
band called Sponge, who are on
both [Sonic Unyon] compilations,"
ble
Charger),
and  Tristan
For vinyl enthu-
Sonic Unyon
offer a smaller sampling
of their pungent talents.
It's a 7" record entided Smell
Ya Later that includes Sponge,
Shallow, Gleet, and Tristan
Psionic - truly a compilation
worth it's weight in onion rings.
Even with a total
bands, Mark is currently signing other local Eastern-based acts,
release on
Sonic Unyon records
is a full-length offering from the heavily
British-influenced
Treble Charger, entided ncl 7. This album
blends elements of My
Bloody Valentine with the
sounds of another Canadian great, Neil Young.
Another exciting quirk
of Sonic Unyon records is
their monthly newsletter
The Stink: the Official
Sonic Unyon Records
News Source. Used as a
medium through which to
contact media and fans
across the country, the
'zine includes inside info
about the company,
upcoming events and releases, recipes (like
perogies and sonic un-
yons!), and fun facts
about Hamilton and
Canada. (For example,
did you know that Hamilton is the self-proclaimed 'donut capital' of
the world, with over 49
Tim Horton's outlets? Or
that Canada's mascot, the
By
Sean Raggett
beaver, eats onions to stay warm
during the winter months?)
Used by the fellas as a way to
gauge the label's success, the newsletter has become very popular.
"[The newsletter] was originally
monthly, but then our mailing list
got past the 500 mark so we had to
make it bi-monthly; now it's tri-
monthly because 43 cents times 550
people starts to add up and since
we've been on tour we've collected
so many more names - it's gonna
be pretty expensive to keep up with
it," Mark commiserates.
How do the two entrepreneurs
find time for the label they originally treated as a side project, especially in the wake of such an over-
whelming positive response for
Sonic Unyon projects? According
to Mark, the label eats up more of
their energy than Tristan Psionic un
dertakings: "It's not like we want
to [direct our energy] one way or
the other, but it's probably about
60:40 [in favour of] the label. It's
starting to consume a lot of our
Even while facing a host of
seemingly never ending commitments to the Hamilton scene, the
members of Tristan Psionic recently
released their own full-length CD,
Feves: the Sounds of Tristan
Psionic. The 'donut rockers' also recently completed a nation wide tour
with Moncton's Sub Pop signees
Eric's Trip. Their stop in Vancouver included an incredible all-ages
show at the Anza Club with Pluto
and Weezer.
Life on the road has been good
to the group. "It's fantastic - this has
been the best tour," enthuses Psionic
drummer Tim. "[Eric's Trip] are ex
cellent to play with - they're virtually always in good moods."
Tristan Psionic's typical set consists of a noisy mesh of guitar-
soaked melodies amidst a solid
backup delivery from the rhythm
section. Their Vancouver show impressed me, most notably for the
fact that Tristan Psionic possess a
finely-tuned stage presence most
young bands lack. Mark and Sandy
are believable on guitar and vocals;
Wool is lovable with his exuberant
stage antics, and Tim supplies a
freslily creative rhythm on drums.
Together as Tristan Psionic, the
Hamilton foursome embrace an innovative style of contemporary college-pop diat is in no way diffused
by a transfer from live action to CD
Do the accomplishments of these
two youthful indie-music biz whizzes seem impressive? They should.
Sonic Unyon records have accumulated a small family of recording artists, a nationwide fan base, and a
successful independent Canadian
record company in under a year. The
smells of Sonic Unyon records are
permeating the country.
When asked about the label's
shiny professional image among
music lovers, college radio programmers and local musicians, plus
their glowing reputation for good
production, full colour covers and
top quality t-shirts, Mark seems
mildly astonished. Contemplating
the possibility that fans might appreciate the duo's efforts and Sonic
Unyon's positive effect on the
Hamiltonian (and Canadian!) music scene, he pauses a moment,
composes himself, and nonchalantly replies, "I guess so. Everyone seems to think we're organized.
I think they're misled, but whatever
they want to think..."
Catch Tristan Psionic LIVE
AT THEIR ALL-AGES GIG WITH
Pluto, November 1 2th at
Crosstown Traffic
Write Sonic Unyon Records at:
PO Box 59347
Jackson Station
Hamilton Ont.
l8p 4x2
f?   HS^rf^ If anyone didnt notice my abscence
from this column last month, it was
probably because Trish Kelly did such
a wonderful job of replacing me. I
say, "Thanks Trish, you rule!" because
good last-minute replacements are hard
to find and count on. As it turns out, it
looks like it might be a permanent one.
Sparkmarker, Final Notice Records,
disco dancing, Gest Quest Co-op, Anticentre, eating, writing this column, having fun, sleeping, working 9-5 and
hanging with my baby brother and sister to do anything half-assed. So I've re-
asessed my interests and sadly Van.
Spec, wont be a part of my future. The
fall of the Anti-centre (it closed in August, not that anyone noticed) and the
lack of organization needed for the Gest
Quest Co-op are blessings in disguise
for me. I'm going t
band and the label, hopefuly giving myself more time to to do the neccessary
things (like eating and sleeping) and
maybe even find time to hang-out, socialize, or just go crazy. If only I could
find a way to get rid of the 9-5 and still
be financialy secure, then maybe I could
find the time to return my phone-
calls.. .Hmmm...doubt it.
Saying good-bye now seems easy
but I know next month I'll be missing
all the great and not-so-great fanzines
and music that I've been recieving for
the past year-and-three-quarters-to-be-
exact. Funny thing is, some people still
think Tom Milne has been writing this
column, which has been fine with me
'cause he got all the hate-mail for giving bad reviews. But enough babble,
there are reviews to be written and people to piss-off. The job must be done -
and let me tell you, its been a great job.
How's that for a last minute brown
nose? Thought so.
FANZINES
HANDS OFF! 01 (7 X 10 - 44pgs $4
(CANS) ppd)
This is cool. A compilation of artists donating their talent to benefit Washington
The
witty and brings home many important
issues dealing with homophobia. As one
artist suggested, you could help educate
the public by buying 10 copies of this
comic and sending them to your family
and friends. Of course, it will offend any
of the religiously uptight people your
know - like the lady on Skytrain who was
reading it over my shoulder and suddenly
got up and stood five feet away from me.
I think I'll buy 10 more, it works great.
(501 N. 36th St., Suite #350, Seattle, WA
98103)
NOT JUST ANOTHER COOKBOOK
01 (oatmeal in a bag) (81/2X 11 -56pgs
$?ppd)
'Zines like this make writing this column
worth it, honestly. Beautiful original layouts with tons of interviews, reviews and
writing. I had a fun time just looking at
the pictures, a lot of which seem to have
been taken by Shawn Scallen. A lot of
coverage on the local scene in Ottawa
and a really neat personals section which
has photos of perspective pen-pals. Cool.
Interviews with Lockjaw, Sloan, Black
Eyed Peas, King Cob Steelie, Silly, and
Redd Kross. (917 Beauclaire Dr., Orleans, Ontario KIC 2J5)
...SOMETIMES I'M A PRETTY GIRL
01 (5 1/2 X 8 1/2 - 20pgs $1 ppd)
A local 'zine by a very pretty girl. Sometimes these personal 'zines are so honest that you cant help but take a long
look at yourself and question everything. You know, I think everyone could
benefit from doing a personal 'zine, it
helps get all that shit you've always
wanted to say but couldnt off your
chest. And if you pick it up, start reading it and then say you cant be bothered to read it anymore, well..J think
you might need to read it the most. The
revolution starts from the inside, with
you. (PO Box 1457 - Station A', Vancouver, BC V6C 2P7)
Random Thought! 09 (5 1/2 X 8 1/2 -
12pgs free but send $1 postage)
So how's Trish going to be able to constructively criticize her own zine? Well,
I guess we'll wait and see. For now I
can tell you that Trish is a very busy
girl. A lot of her spoken word performances slip into or from this 'zine, so if
you like one you'll probably like the
other. Very much like a diary, but to
criticize (it's my last chance) I would
say that the layouts could improve - type
writers just can't hold their own. I'm
sure that by the time you read this issue
#10 (and it's gonna be big) will be out.
(Box 33 - 345 E. Broadway, Vancouver, BC VST 1W3)
YOU RIDE A HORSE RATHER LESS
WELL THAN ANOTHER HORSE
WOULD 01 (7 X 8 1/2 - 28pgs $2ppd)
A 'zine spawned from a radio show of
the same name on another local college
radio station. (Duh, I wonder which
one?) Beyond the silly name are pages
of silly, silly... stuff. Not only witty reviews of records, 'zines and shows, but
reviews of cartoons, the local buses in
Vancouver, and movies seen or unseen.
Good humour always brings a smile to
my day and I found lots within these
pages. As far as layout goes they could
use some improvement, but the content is original and they promise to get
better with future issues. (PO Box
SLOT-June '94 (8 1/2X11- 20pgs
2$ ppd)
Sometimes I have this odd desire to visit
Winnipeg, but luckily I come to my
senses before I buy a bus ticket. I dont
know where these desires were spawned
had some-
with it. A
delightfuly
fi^pS
aproach to
splicing
feminism
a    printed
with Vancouver's own cub, Mary
Fleener, and King Cobb Steelie. Layout & la Macintosh computer, but hey,
it works and it's the graphics and photos that liven it up. Ummm buy it and
see what I'm writing about. (PO Box
26143 - 116 Sherbrook, Winnipeg,
Manitoba R3G 1E4)
MUSIC
Fraser Valley Champions
(compilation CD)
This is a very well packaged and recorded compilation featuring 10 Fraser
Valley bands (that's right, Clearbrook,
Abbotsford, Langley, Port Coquitlam -
beyond the 'burbs) that actually catch
your attention. Compilatons usually
suck and I avoid them unless a favourite band I like is on it, but after just one
listen I was saying, "Hey, this is good."
Favorite bands included Red Deer,
Howard Verses Willy and Diesel Division. This was put out by the Veritable
Shrine Musical Co-op, who must be doing something right 'cause this CD is
red. (Veritable Shrine - 6122 Glengary
Dr., Sardis, BCV2R3H4)
(demo) "-******;;■:.    "Jit
This local band "
has been very active in the last
8 months, this demo being proof of that.
Recorded in Victoria in one weekend by
Jason Flower from Mexican Power Authority - and when the vocals are affected (in one of the songs) like a death
metal monster it shows. My over-all impression was one of "this is their first
band," meaning it doesnt hit you in the
face bud hope they keep it up because
in time...who knows. The funny, funny
lyrical satire with a political message
is a real highlight and hey, it's punk.
(Break Even Records - 2185 Amity Dr.,
Sidney, BCV8L1B2)
All Right* Reserved
Losing the Past (cassette)
I saw this band open for Swing Kids
and Indian Summer awhile back and
they really rocked. They seemed quite
like a standard straight-edge band as far
as looks go but I know that's not what
they are. The recording is quite good
and definitely deserves some attention.
Hopefully they'll come back and if you
buy the tape maybe you can sing along
when they play. (515 Willacy Dr. S.E.,
Calgary, Alberta T2J2C7)
ALL AGES SHOWS
Sept. 3* The Evaporators, Karp (from
olympia), Two Tonne Bowlers & Goblins at Crosstown Traffic - 316 W. Hastings 8pm $6
Oct. S The Vague Fanzine show with
Cinnamon,10 Days Late Staked PLain
& The Cowards at Crosstown Traffic
8pm J5
Oet. 22 Furnace Face, Trigger HAppy,
DBS & Ponyboy at the new York Theatre 8pm $8
Oct. 29 Itch, Woo-Woos & guests at
Crosstown Traffic 8pm $6
FACIEIiLLER
the many
CHRONOMETER
18   October 1994 y^f^~^k^j\
U^A">
\^
1    m       \
vh4J
[  "
\I\TJ
Ml/ it
\^M
\%r\    n
£<^\    j
The following reviews represent the
personal opinions of Grant Lawrence, who, by the constitutional laws
of Canada, is still entided to his own
opinion. But let's leave Canada and
its crummy rights for a moment, shall
we? Local throb-lovers Superconductor have recendy released a track
on an Italian double 7" pack entided
UP!. Their tune, "Scum (That Is
What You Are)," is a largely experimental, non-melodic screedier and
a disappointing departure from the
material on their powerful Boner LP.
The pack also features a barrage of
other bands, including American acts
The Chrome Cranks (noise infested
cacophony), Janitor Joe (sludge
rock), Atomic 61 (a noise-punk dirge
heavy on percussion), and Italy's
Sinatra (basically a Yankee clone).
Highly recommended for those who
enjoy the sounds of heavy machinery. (Helter Skelter, 00162 Roma,
P. le delle Provincie, 8, Italy; also
available through Scratch Records)
On the uglier side of the local
front, my box was recently polluted
by a split single of two rather unknown local bands: The Muscle
Bitches and Vampire Fruit (although according to the credits both
bands seem to have the same members). Putting it as mildly as possible, the Muscle Bitches' a-side
"Save the Nymphos" is utterly disturbing speed-metal, complete with
a demonic 'narrator' and a fucked-
up female 'nymph' engaging in a
call-and-answer type of thing -
shiver. On the flip side, Vampire
Fruit slip into Gwar territory with
more repulsive riffs, zombie-like
chanting and over-all horrific music. I pray this thing is some kind of
joke or else we may have some very
disturbed and mixed-up folks in our
scene. (Baptist Cracker, #210-119
W. Pender St., Vancouver, B.C.,
V6B 1S5)
You know, it may not seem this
way right now but I really do hate
to be this negative; I just can't bring
myself to he to you. So here we go
again...Four groups have come together for a 7' compilation on Toronto's new Sonic Unyon Records.
Tristan Psionic (apparently all the
rage in TO) lead off the disk sounding like a harder-edged Sloan minus the talent and are followed by a
band called Gleet trying to sneak
by with some thoroughly boring
ethereal crud. The other two bands,
Sponge and Shallow, just play more
dull indie pop and try desperately
to rock. Oh lord, won't these Toronto losers take a hint from fellow
easterners the Leather Uppers and
learn how to DO IT! Otherwise,
keep it outta my face! (Sonic
Unyon, 2076 Churchill Ave.,
Burlington, ON, LR7 3T7)
Lance Rock Records, that
strange litde rock'n'roll label from
Nanaimo which keeps on putting
out the damnedest good stuff, has a
new release out by Atlanta, Georgia's brilliant The Subsonics. Like
the bastard children of Buddy Holly
and the Velvet Underground, this
incredible three-piece spit out three
venomous rock'n'roll stingers entided "Looking Over My Shoulder,"
"Fly," and "Spooky Tricks" (the lat
ter two being instrumentals). This
band really is superb and should be
huge, so please, do something about
it won't you? (Lance Rock Records,
1223 College Drive, Nanaimo, BC,
V9R5Z5)
Another three-piece that turn it
up just a Id' bit louder thean The
Subsonics and play that new hard
rock the kids all love so much is San
Diego's mighty Fluf! I certainly dug
Fluf's first album and bits and
pieces of the second one and, luckily for me, the band's new single
"Moody as the Day is Young" captures the Fluf I enjoy most: hard,
over-driven, highly melodic pop.
People keep saying these cats sound
like Dinosaur Jr., but since I've
never heard that particular band I
just wouldn' t know. What I do know
is that Fluf's O has got a great voice
and "One Trick Pony" is a great
song. (Goldenrod Records, 3770
Tansy St., San Diego, CA, 92121,
USA)
When it comes to pure unadulterated rock'n'roll energy, Japan's
new hodge-podge barrage of garage
bands have got an edge on the rest
of the world. Such is the case with
the latest hell-raisers The
Registrators. Taking their cue from
fellow countrymen Teengenerate,
The Registrators' Set Me Free EP
features five tracks of pumped-up,
super-fast, lo-fi punk rock'n'roll.
The recording quality is fairly shitty
(exacdy the way it's supposed to be,
although it did mar my enjoyment
slightly), creating highly-charged
static from this very great new band.
Watch for it, cuz in six months their
name will be everywhere. (Snuffy
Smile, 401 Honogh-M, 2-36-2,
Yayoi-cho, Nakano-ku, Tokyo, Japan)
Another obvious influence on
The Registrators' rage is one of my
all-time favourite combos, New
York's rock'n'roll kings The Devil
Dogs. The band's latest outing is a
split with New Jersey's Mad
Daddys and is a another boss cut in
the long line of Devil Dogs great-
crash V burn cover of an obscure
doo-wop song entided "Ragdoll."
Over on the flip-side, the Mad
Daddys unwittingly prove that it
doesn't get any better than the Devil
Dogs with a tired take on the
Monkees' "Steppin' Stone" that
should have remained in the garage
along with the countless other versions of that song. (Demolition
Derby, Tervuursesteenweg 1H-1820
Perk, Belgium)
The Mad Daddys notwithstanding, New Jersey does have its share
of hit-makers, such as the improbably fabulous Shitbirds (although
they may have flown the coop to
LA). Teamed up with New York's
Simon and the Bar Sinister; for a
four song, all-instro rock'n'roll
party on the Sympathy For The
Record Industry label. The Shitbirds
two cuts have the inexplicably
Canuck-themed tides of "Kickback
1812" and "Canadian Carwash"
(maybe they're on the soundtrack
for that new Michael Moore movie
about the USA invading Canada)
and both kick absolute butt, although I must admit disappointment
in not being treated to lead-singer-
bird April March's heavenly pipes.
On the flip, Simon and his players
try twangin' along to keep up with
the Shitbirds' sonic pace but can't
quite make it. But then who could?
Also on the Sympathy label is the
very first thing I've ever heard from
San Francisco's notorious Diesel
Queens. Politically incorrect in the
extreme, this is flat-out sleaze-ball
punk rock. Side A is a circa '77 assault on the Dion and the Belmonts'
tune "The Wanderer" which chops
along very merrily. On the B-side,
"Codpiece Nation" sounds like it
may be a bit of a departure for the
Queens as 80% of the song is just
strumming guitar accompanied by
gritty lyrics all about that "sweaty
leather patch that cups superheroes'
nuts." Another great couple of
records from Sympathy.
Finally, from the heart of the Los
Angeles scene, is a new series of
seven-inchers with all their proceeds going to help keep East LA's
famed coffee-house/art gallery/
punk rock palace Jabberjaw alive
and open. The first record in the
series features four 'favourite' high-
profile rock acts: Unwound, Hammerhead, Slug and Helmet The
music, as you can probably guess,
is extremely harsh and hard-hitting.
Some may consider these four exclusive tracks a treasure but I just
find them to be an ear-ache - an earache for a good cause, mind you!
(Mammoth Records, Carr Mill 2nd
Floor, Carrboro, NC, 27510, USA)
©
A
November 11 and 121994 SUB Ballroom
The DJ, MC, and Dancer competitions takes place Friday, November 11 at 6:00pm sharp
The Group competition will take place on Saturday, November 12 at 6:00pm sharp
A Street Art showcase will take place both evenings during the event
Contestants may enter in more than one category
Each performing unit must submit a cassette with their entry forms to qualify
Entry Deadline: November 4,1994
Entry fee: $5 per person
Rules are available at CiTR and other locations in your area
Entry Form (One entry per person)
Name	
Address	
City	
Zip/Postal Code 	
Phone Number	
Stage Name _
Group Name _
Circle the categories you are entering:
DANCE
LSaaiail
Sony Music
BHSSIX
PdyOram
Send Your Entries to:
DJ SoundWar c/o CiTR #233-6138 SUB Boulevard, Vancouver BC, Canada V6T 1Z1
Phone: (604) 822-3017 Fax: (604) 822-9364 eMail: citr@unixg.ubc.ca
MM (1>(
[^Roland
(& f$gg°mim  CANADA'S LARGEST AND BEST KNOWN RECORD STORES
IN CONCERT
FRIDAY, OCT 7
at the TOWN PUMP
KING COBB STEELIE; A POCKET HISTORY
Iph, four grown men, big record collections, too much free time, an
re to entertain. K.C.S. b spawned...the shitheap of mediocrity awaits.
April 1992. After a year of exhaustive test marketing; K.C.S. record two songs, "One1
A Heifer" and "Duotang". They are released as the universally hoarded seven inch singl
is still unclear, th* single is given away. An internal investigation b still
March 1993. Seasoned road veterans of the Golden Triangle K.C.S. look for new ways to
leach their bank accounts. A full length album b recorded. Toronto indie maverick Raw
Energy foolishly agree to release the first IOCS. CD produced by Shadowy Men On A
Shadowy Manet lynchpin Don Pyle.
April 1993. K.C.S. fullflll years of repressed teenage fantasies and tour the nation. Brave
New Waves and college radio play the record way too much, while
forget to remove it from the Top 30 for six months.
May 1993. In flagrant violation of the austerity measures imposed by band accountant Al
Okada, K.CS.remix "Deadly Lampshade" from the K.C.S. debut. The CD single "You
Said A Mouthful" features the vocal obstacle course of Kathryn Rose and the primordial
drone of Cyrus Sundar Singh along with some rather cryptic bunny artwork.
August 1993. K.CS. enter the studio with indie rock producer extraordinaire and pool
shark, Suva Albini. They attempt six songs in three days. Let's not talk about it.
January 1994. Another national tour, another crippling debt -enter Satan. K.CS. signs a
world wide, trans-lunar publishing deal with Wamer/ChappeH. Their pupils are
March 1994. Stopped at the U.S. border trying to flee the country, K.CS. are forced to
record another album. The band asks universal dub emperor Bill Laswell (Sly and Robbie,
P.I.L., Iggy, Feb, George Clinton) to direct them to the path of enlightenment.
Recorded In Toronto and mixed at LasweU's own Greenpoint Studio in Brooklyn N.Y.,
the album includes stellar performances by Change of Heart's Ian Blurton and really gone
August 1994. K.CS. release their second pall of slop and bleating, "Project Twinkle " on
lunamoth/EMi. The first obligatory single and video b "Triple Oceanic Experience". All
'1 be unfurled under the banner "national tour" in late
CAN'T FIND IT? Sam's has Western Canada's largest selection and most comprehensive request service.
ON SALE UNTIL OCT. I4TH AT 568 SEYMOUR ST. FOUR FLOORS OF FUN!
FIFTH FLOOR - SAM THE INTERACTIVE MAN - COMING SOON! SAMS CLUB IS HERE! SEE INSTORE FOR DETAILS. THE RIP-OFFS
Got A Record
(Rip-Off Records)
Ah yes, an ultimate DIY rock'n'roll
album by those men in the robber
outfits from San Francisco, The
Rip-Offs. Got A Reconlxs a loot bag
full of raunchy songs, all of which
have been knawing al the back of
my brain since my first few spins
of this blood-red vinyl platter. The
Rip-Offs are a lo-fi, down and dirty
punk rock'n'roll band with attitude
to spare, and the fourleen tracks on
Got A Record prove that along with
the chips on their shouMers, tattoos,
and nylon face-masl the men of
The Rip-Offs have j- some genuine songwriting abii % and many a
catchy melody. Co! ining members of past fabulou' S F bands hke
Supercharger and th Ylr. T Experience, this band ha> ;;reat overall
presence, both in tl r songs and
their hilarious then Just check
out the front cover: a iiazing coup
d' etat featuring th< boys posing
candidly in the Sail mcisco Police Department's c inal line-up
room! This one's        jiure goods
Grant Lawrenc
DINOSAUR JR.
Without a Sound
(Blanco y Negro)
As a follow-up to successful
1992 album, Been e, J Mascis
has completed this * her twisted
yet pleasant Dip ui  Jr. disc.
Change and musu i olution are
obviously not lop :orities for
Mascis: Everythir. n Without a
Sound is typical oi
forts. On the othc id, consistency in the guis well-con
structed rock songs accompanied by
J's abrasive guitar-playing has its
good points.
Mascis has perfected the art of
using familiar guitar riffs that entice his audience into his personal
hell of loneliness, despair and failure. The lyrical content of the album can be summarized by the
words of the first song, "Feel the
Pain": I feel all the pain, then I feel
I find the quieter songs, such as
"Outta Hand" and "Seemed Like the
Thing" easier to enjoy but there are
plenty of up-tempo rockers to balance out the sorrowful mood of the
Vince Yeh
JALE
Dreamcake
(Sub Pop)
Well here it is, the long awaited full
length release from the much-hyped
Maritime foursome Jale.
Dreamcake, produced by Brad
Wood (Liz Phair, Shrimpboat), consists of twelve sparse and sombre
songs which are reminiscent of Tsunami or Velocity Girl but with more
of an emphasis on harmony and
backing vocals. Lyrically, the songs
on Dreamcake deal primarily with
relationships, as titles like "To Be
Your Friend" and "Love Letter"
suggest. On the whole, the album is
a bit bland and plodding. The one
exception is the Breeder-like opening track, "Not Happy," which
stands out from the rest. Dreamcake
has its moments but it fails to generate much excitement for these
Fred derF
L7
Hungry for Stink
(Slash)
Anyone who goes to see the new
Ollie Stone movie, Natural Bom
Killers, has got to admit that watching Juliet Lewis kick the shit out of
a red-necked creep to the dulcet
tones of L7 is powerful, powerful,
POWERFUL! On this new release
from the gals, all the songs are anthems of female power. They're
messy and crunchy and make you
want to go out and do something
reckless. One song in particular is
reason enough to go out and buy
Hungry for Stink: "Shirley" is the
kind of song that makes you wish
that the dynamite lady at the monster-truck show, the one who usually blows herself up during half-
time, would jump into the truck with
the biggest tires and mow down all
her opponents.
This music makes you want to
run or hit something. It's hke uppers for your ears. Everything becomes hyper-real and makes you
anxious. You're faced with an enemy and you're all keyed-up to say
exactly what it is that you've always
wanted to say but never have and
then you do and you feel STRONG!
Your esteem kicks in and raises your
blood pressure and you feel that you
can be true to yourself.
This music is hip-swingy and
naughty. And it's sexy. You could
either hate someone or love someone to this music which is good because neither are mutually exclu-
This music makes you want to
tie your Barbie™ to your bumper
and drive around the world just to
see how unmarketable she'd be
when you got back. Know what I
Kirsty Smith
again. Other stand-out tracks include "Lori Meyers," which relates
the feelings of a porn star ("You
think I sell my body, I only sell my
time"), and "Jeff Wears
Birkenstocks," a gentle dig at the
Grateful Dead phenomenon. Perhaps these guys just don't understand the spiritual implications of
Jerry's guitar solos.
One final note: For those of you
who are easily offended, there is still
some of the juvenile humour that
has made this band a mainstay with
the skater set. Consider yourselves
warned.
Geoff Wherrett
NOFX
punk in drublic
(Epitaph Records)
Punk rock can be an exhilarating
musical experience; it can also be
really tiresome when it's delivered
by a bunch of adrenaline-fuelled
suburban fools from California
shouting pointless slogans. While
NOFX certainly fall into some of
these categories, their skills (fast
rhythms, great harmonies, kind guitar sound) and finely honed sense
of lyrical humour allow them to rise
above most of their rock'n'roll breth-
punk in drublic, the band's latest
release, provides further proof that
NOFX do indeed rule. The first two
tracks, "Linoleum" and "Leave It
Alone," are straight forward hard-
drivers which managed to make this
: feel like he was sixteen
THE RHEOSTATICS
Introducing Happiness
(Sire)
they're happy
they're happy
they're different
they're happier
happiness is
elastic pop quiet shouted
you can tell they are
Canadian, not like Bare Naked...
they don't fawn,
subtler than past
maybe Whale Music or Molvalic is
better to get first
still the best band in the world
(frontal nude of band members inside)
original new wave rock.
Tom Glenne
RANCID
Let's Go
(Epitaph)
Along with the fact that this album
was released in one of the most
original, collectable packages ever
(a double ten-inch on white vinyl
with a gate-fold sleeve), Rancid's
whopping twenty-two titles on Let's
Go are song-f or-song the catchiest
punk I've heard since...since Rancid's Radio Radio Radio EP released earlier this year. The tunes
(and I mean tunes, folks) weave
their way through a Rancid-eye
view of San Francisco, Berkley and
Oakland, providing a strong social
commentary highlighted with such
violent themes as young death,
dope, booze, guns and punks. All
the songs rage with an incredible
energy rarely captured on record
and they show off the amazing songwriting and performing talent of
those four mohawk-sporting punks
who look hke they'd be better qualified to beg for change than to put
out an awesome rock'n'roll record
hke this.
Grant Lawrence
VARIOUS ARTISTS
Fraser Valley Champions
(Veritable Shrine)
I hke the idea of local compilations:
Lotsa bands, lotsa songs, and exposure to music that may otherwise
never see the light of the laser on
my CD player. The Fraser Valley
Champions Compilation, put together by the Sardis-based Veritable Shrine Music Organization, features nine bands over seventeen
tracks, starting with Darkest of the
Hillside Thickets' "A Thousand
Fists." Kinda hard rockin' and
catchy, but only marginally so.
Their second song, "Big Robot Dinosaur," sounds something like
Evan Dando singing for Primus and
is equally mediocre. Blender Children is next with a humdrum folk-
singer-doing-grunge thing called
"Bag of Tricks." The band's other
song, "My Namesake," also has that
cliched grunge element, but singer
Harry Friesen's straining vocals do
spew a lot of energy.
Maybe it's the angst of having
to drive so far to Vancouver to play
clubs or see out of town acts or the
influence of Seattle bands, but
there's definitely a streak of anger
and intensity throughout this disc
and especially in the two tracks by
Diesel Division. This is metal a la
grindcore and is good for what it is,
but neither "Bloody Minded" nor
"Beyond the Wheel" is to my taste.
Both are as heavy as a cement block
and about as melodic. The one track
by Flywheel, "Sonic John," is
hardly mind-blowing, but it's Sonic
Youth-y atonal/noise-background
sound is promising enough to make
me want to hear more from this
band. The same cannot be said for
Jonathan Wrath, however, who can
only offer a couple of bland Nir-
vana-wanna be tunes.
Probably the best pair of songs
on the CD come from Howard
Verses Willy. Both "India" and
"Deep in the Park" are rather formulaic 'college rock' songs which
alternate distorted choruses with
cleaner sounding verses, but their
pretty decent nonetheless. Another
couple of stand-outs come from
Draining Faces, who tap into the
70's groove of Urge Overkill on
"Weak" while getting into a heavier,
almost speed-metal sound on
"Pieces." Not spectacular, but not
bad either.
The Seattle influence rears its
ugly head again on Molypod's "10th
Eats," a rather boring song with stale
sounding drums bored me. The
band's other track, "Will," has an
almost industrial flavour and can
best be described as o.k.
Red Deer close the compilation
with a bouncy number that features
distorted guitars and whiny vocals.
A good listen for the first two minutes, but after that it just drags.
It says in the liner notes for this
disc that "...if you come away having spent your ten bucks and enjoying the sound of at least one band
that you have never heard before,
the whole of Veritable Shrine benefits, and we thank you. If not,
charge a friend five for it." So, have
I got any takers?
Brian Wieser
Introduce Yourself
Advertising
You got something you want to sell? Now's your
opportunity to have 20,000 copies of your ad
circulating around town for a month...for less than the
price of that new jacket you've been thinking about.
Way less!
Call Kevin at 822-3017 for more info
Zl October 1994 DEBUT BBQ
A backyard in Mount Pleasant
Saturday, September 3
Now this is the kind of thing that
should happen more often: a show
featuring a whole bunch of new
bands in a big ol' backyard in East
Vancouver. It all started around 4:00
pm with every man's man Beez
singing some solo songs to an ever-
growing audience of East Van
scenesters, followed by the new
group Petrolia playing terrifically
loud guitar rock. It was during
Petrolia's sonic assault that the first
of several angry neighbours - wondering why a bunch of weirdos were
holding a show in the middle of the
afternoon in their neighbourhood -
showed their faces over the fence.
But no cops - yet.
The disgruntled neighbours were
quickly tamed into submission by
the cool accordion/guitar/beat-box
rhythms of cover girl Wandering
Lucy, who was followed by the hilarious Pocket Caligula (featuring
local painter and toga sportin' Ted-
Dave along with a few other cronies from Knock Down Ginger)
playing some great Violent
Femmes-esque ditties about art
school and lovin' this town.
Next up was the evening's star
attraction Meow. Decked out in fur
bikinis and rockin' hard, this latest
all-girl 'sensation' finally managed
to attract the attention of the police.
Fortunately the cops were so
charmed by the fur-clad Meow that
they delayed shutting things down
and allowed the band to belt out its
last dose of kitty garage.
July Fourth Toilet then collectively stumbled on stage and attempted to perform, but they made
such a racket with their rendition of
"Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds"
that the cops made everyone move
inside. Not a big problem - it was
getting dark and chilly and most
everybody had had their fill of barbecued tofu dogs and sweet potatoes. Once inside, Rob Dayton and
the rest of his Toiletries continued
their musical mayhem until around
9:00pm when it was time for the final act of the evening, the Mary
Janes (who have just changed their
name to The Tonics, by the way). A
star-studded combo featuring members of Kreviss, Tankhog, Show Biz
Giants and Bum, the Mary Janes'
drunken, instrumental party rock
made for a great finish to a partial-
-*
larly original and fun event. Long
live the back yard BBQ!
Grant Lawrence
Lollapalooza '94
Cloverdale Race Track
Tuesday, August 30
If there is any justice in the world,
Lollapalooza will never rear its
don't-give-a-fuck-how-crowded-it-
is-was-we're-here-to-make-
money-so-stand-in-line-for-an-
hour-and-buy-a t-shirt-and-an-
overpriced-Coke-and-listen-to-
some-rock'n'roll-but-nothing-
Canadian-please- 'cause- that-
would-be-helpi ng-someone-else's-
music-industry-hope-you-
enjoyed-the-show-now-hurry-
a radio
■PP^!
protest to
life Ji
H kf
support gay/
R"^
lesbian/
bi-sexual
:    x   '*'        teZ
■sr                    |lp
programming,
a radio
c
jk-.v
protest
against
censorship.
o
JJ.5*
j|k.-±?       t iHaV^ip*^
a radio
protest
IT!
iur;
Mv. J,   U
against
homophobia.
CiTR
101.9 fM
1
6-
1 f\           \ ■'■?    1
10pmr»    -
home-to-bed-kids head in these
parts ever again. It was hot, dusty,
and way oversold and the
acoustics were rucking scandalous
- unless you were suffocating in
the moshpit directly in front of the
stage you were subjected to an
echo from hell.
Green Day came on stage right
on time and set off a stampede in
the parking lot that was quickly
halted by the hour plus line-up at
the ONE entrance to the festival
sight There really should have
been a riot considering how many
people had to miss the best band
of the day.
L7 were up next. Why oh why
do people hke this band? How did
the appropriation of everything
vulgar and tasteless in male cock-
rock get redefined as female
empowerment? How can people
willingly subject themselves to
Jennifer Finche's fingers-on-a-
chalkboard screeching?
Nick Cave was cool but he was
in the wrong place at the wrong
time. He should stay away from
both sunlight and the outdoors.
And unidentified flying objects.
After Nick left the stage in a
huff I decided to check out the
'Mindfield' and the second stage.
The former was lame and
overcrowded and the latter was so
close to the
gouging is behind us. I hope you
mainstage
had a better time than I did.
Gigantic
as to be an
Les Vegas
lead
insult to the
Breeder
Rancid
Kim Deal
playing on
Ten Days Late
is rudely
it. Not to
DBS
interupted
mention the
SUB Ballroom
by the
NaziMC
Friday, September 9
Beastie
who
I have been going to CiTR for a
Boys'
wouldn't
year now and I have always
MCA
shut up and
wondered what that big room
(left);
let people
across the hall from us is. Turns
George
chill out and
out that it's the SUB Ballroom.
Clinton
relax in the
The night of this show, the SUB
reaches
sunshine. I
was bursting at the seams with
out to
was
fifteen year-old punk rockers and,
touch the
especially
compared to the last time I saw
funk
impressed
Rancid play at the YoYo Music
(below).
when he
Festival, this crowd was very
Ace
resorted to
tame. Where were the usual crusty
photos by
taunting
punks? Well, I saw a few panning
resident
kids into
downtown earlier that day, but at
lackey and
moving
$10 a head they were probably
special
closer to the
still downtown by the time the
effects
stage by
Kings of Oi! hit the stage.
genius
insinuating
Opening for Rancid were
Tania
that they
locals Ten Days Late. I love the
Alekson.
were
heavy sound of this band but I
probably
can't stomach the rock star
attitude they have -1 was very
disappointed when one band
member told me it sucks
opening because "you sell less
merch."
Next up were local cuties
DBS. Everybody loves DBS
because they are fifteen and play
in a band. 'Iheir sound was far
better than anyone else that
night and they are really good at
what they do, but at the same
time they lose great points in the
originality department - the
names Green Day, Bad Religion
and Seaweed all come to my
mind. Like cute little puppy
dogs, these boys will need to
develop something more lasting
than youth if they are to keep
gay if they didn't. Yep, pretty damn
cutting-edge.
Back at the mainstage, Kim
Deal justified her appearance on
the cover of High Tunes magazine
a few months back by grunting and
growling her way through all the
hits with a suspiciously twisted
grin on her face. By far the best
performance that I was actually
able to see, though George Clinton
and the P-Funk All Stars were a
very close second. When the Funk
is in the house, you just can't stop
yourself from having a good time.
That's exactly what I thought of
the Beastie Boys when I saw them
at the Commodore a couple of
years ago, but out in Cloverdale
every song after the first two
sounded exactly the same. Now
granted this was as much the fault
of the echo as of the band, but I
still found myself yawning and
plotting my escape before the B-
Boys were even halfway through
their set.
And escape I did, well before
those oh-so-precious and self-
important Smashing Pumpkins got
anywhere near the stage. If any
one thinks that rock opera is dead,
they probably haven't heard these
immaculately coifed little love
children.
So, another day of corporate
and their hair all punked out in
'hawks. Oi. They played then-
stuff, the bass was once again
amazing, the hey hey choruses
were perfect, but I was disappointed. I don't know which has
changed, Rancid or my expectations of them, but they bored me.
I'm not sure exactly how many
encores Rancid did, because after
two I decided I really had to pee
or get sick, so I left that mysterious room called the SUB
Ballroom and headed for the SUB
bathroom.
Trish Kelly
The Fall
Good Horsey
Starfish Room
Tuesday, September 20
When we heard that Mark E.
Smith and the funky bunch were
coming to the Starfish Room we
immediately cancelled our dates
(yeah, right) for the night and
muscled our way into the sold-out
show at the Starfish Room.
Opening band Good Horsey
suffered from technical difficulties
and a bad case of drummer
worship, but the well-fermented
Mr. Smith and Co. put on a tightly
knit, kick-ass show that had the
initially stiff looking crowd
writhing and sweating in no time.
Christy Armstrong & Nicole
zsu&gJEssm 32 VARIOUS ARTISTS
33 HEAVENS TO BETSY
34 THE FLAMING UPS
35 SAINT ETIENNE
36 VARIOUS ARTISTS
37 BIG DRILL CAR
38 THE MELVINS
39 JALE
40 JERU THE DAMAJA
41 SF SEALS
42 UNWOUND
43 THINKING FaLERS UNION
44 JOAN JOT A THE....
45 TONICHJLDS
46 DICK DALE
47 AVAIL
48 THE FIGGS
49 7 YEAR BITCH
50 DINOSAUR JR.
TRIBUTE TO N. YOUNG REPRISE
CALCULATED KILL ROCK STARS
PROVIDING NEEDLES... WARNER
TIGER BAY WARNER
VOLUME 9 VOLUME
NO WORSE FOR THE WEAR  HEADHUNTER
YOUR CHOICE LIVE SERIES CARGO
DREAMCAKE SUB POP
COME CLEAN 12" PAYDAY
STILL? MATADOR
NEW PLASTIC IDEAS     KILL ROCK STARS
THE FUNERAL PUDDING AJAX
PURE AND SIMPLE WARNER
THE WOMAN'S BOAT
UNKNOWN TERRITORY
SATIATE
LOW-FIAT SOCIETY HIGH
VIVA ZAPATA
WITHOUT A SOUND
OCT 94 SHORT VINYL 35
GEFFEN
HIGHTONE
LOOKOUT
IMAGO
C/Z
 SIRE
OCT 94 INDIE HOME JOBS
OCTOBER 9'
\ LONG VINYL 50
|    1 THE GLOO GIRLS
ATTENTION SHOPPERS     CELLULOID
2 VARIOUS ARTISTS
DARE TO BE AWARE                  WOT.
3 THE RHEOSTATICS
INTRODUCING HAPPINESS          SIRE
4STEREOLAB
MARS AUDIAC QUINTET      ELEKTRA
5MUSLIMGAUZE
CITADEL                               EXTREME
6 SONIC YOUTH
EXPERIMENTAL JET SET . . . GEITCN
7 ORB
POMMES FRITZ                         ISLAND
8DELERIUM
SEMANTIC SPACES            NETTWERK
9WEEZER
WEEZER                                    GEFFEN
10 FRACAS
GRISLY LOBBY DISPLAY   INCENTIVE
11 FIFTH COLUMN
36C                                                        K
12 THE SMUGGLERS
WET PANTS CLUB              RADIATION
13 THE MOUNTAIN GOATS ZOPHOTE MACHINE                    AJAX
14 PANSY DIVISION
DEFLOWERED                      LOOKOUT
15 PETER JEFFRIES
ELECTRICITY                                AJAX
16COOLIO
IT TAKES A THIEF             TOMMYBOY
17 TREBLE CHARGER
NCI7                                SONIC UNYON
18 VARIOUS ARTISTS
JABBERJAW COMPILATION MAMMOTH
19 CRAYON
BRICK FACTORY                    HARRIET
20 LUSCIOUS JACKSON
NATURAL INGREDIENTS    GRAND ROYAL
21 MC 900 FT JESUS
ONE   STEP   AHEAD...          AMERICAN
11 FREE KITTEN
UNBOXED                PEARL NECKLACE
23 BLUES EXPLOSION
MO' WIDTH                             AUGOGO
24 THE CRAMPS
ROCKINNROLLIN...            RESTLESS
25 AM DIFRANCO
OUT OF RANGE        RIGHTEOUS BABE
26 PERFUME TREE
THE SUNS RUNNING OUT            ZULU
27 SICKO
YOU CAN FEEL THE LOVE...             EM PTY
28 NEIL YOUNG A CH.
SLEEPS WITH ANGELS            REPRISE
29 KILLING JOKE
PANDEMONIUM                               ZOO
30 SLOAN
TWICE REMOVED                     GEFFEN
31 BLUR
PARKLIFE                                     FOOD
1 PIZZICATO 5
2 LOVE & ROCKETS
3 THAT DOG
4 VARIOUS ARTISTS
5 THE BLUE SHADOWS
6 MEX POWER A/WSULTTOINJURY
7 ERIC'S TRIP
8 SMOG
9 VARIOUS ARTISTS
10 THE BREEDERS
11 PURPLE KNIGHT
12 COME
13 BUILT TO SPILL
14 CORDS
15 EXECUTIONERS
16 STRAWBERRY/PLUMTREE
17 SHOTMAKER
18 JAWBOX
19 GOLDENRODS
20 PLUTO
NFA
[2 2  THE KARL HENDRICKS TRIO
\?Z TEAM DRESCH
£4 TEN DAYS LATE
^5  HARDSHIP POST
2 6 THE DROVERS
|2 7 DUB NARCOTIC
28 THE SURFDUSTERS
29 BAGPIPE OPERATION
30 MAGIC DIRT
RED NUMBER NINE
32 VARIOUS ARTISTS
33 HOT TOASTERS
34 THE GREAT MONGOOSE
35 DESK
FIVE BY FIVE EP MATADOR
BODY AND SOUL EP AMERICAN
OLD TIMER EP GEFFEN
YOUTH ON FIRE 7" CANDY ASS
ROCKIN' SONY
SPLIT 7" BREAK EVEN
GORDON STREET HAUNTING EP SUB POP
A HIT 7" DRAG  CITY
SMELL YA LATER 7" SONIC UNYON
SAINTSEP POLYGRAM
NIGHT OF BUCK WATERS DISQUES NIM
WRONG SIDE EP MATADOR
JOYRIDE 7"
AMERICAN WOMAN 7" FUEL
1493 STEPS TO MY HOUSE EMPTY
SPLIT 7" CINNAMON TOAST
WATERSHED 7" VITAL COMMUNICATION
CALLING CARD EP ATLANTIC
LESBIAN NATION 7"
DEATHSTAR7" MINT
PLAYING HELL... 7" DISQUES NIM
CHECKING YOU OUT 7" MIND CURE
LOVE CONFESSIONS 7"    KILL ROCK STARS
GETAWAY 7"
WHY DON'T YOU AND I... 7"
KILL MICE ELF EP
DISCO PLATE 7"
WAVES OF PLEASURE 7"
67 MELODY LANE 7"
SIGNS OF SATANIC... 7"
MARY 7"
OPTIONAL INGREDIENTS 7"
FISH AND DOCTOR 7"
SHE'S A BAD MOTORCYCLE 7*
ASTRONAUTS 7"
KLARK
MURDER
TANTRUM
K
SURFDUST
HARRIET
AUGOGO
FARMHOUSE
TRACKSHUN
DRAG CITY
GIANT CLAW
SLOW RIVER
1   THE REAL MCKENZIES
HAGGISES
2 SQUEEKY
NOT ALL DAISIES
3  GROVER FUR
I LIKE YOU
4  PLUMP
FIRST GIG
5  KITTENS
TOMBOY
6 TATTLE TALE
A GIRL'S TOOLBOX
7  SQUELCH
I LIKE YOU
8  PET
SUGAR
9 TICKLE TRUNK
NO    MEANS    NO
10 TEN DAYS LATE
GETAWAY
11   GREEN ACHERS
INDIANA     ROAD
12  NC17
TRINITY BELLWOODS
13 TENSOR
NC
TIME   FOR   RNR
14 HJOULIE
P I
15 MARK (FROM HORSEY)
SPRING CHICKEN
16 MYSTERONS
INFERNO
17 MEET DAISY
ELLIOT'S   SHAPE
18  SPEED BUGGY
WHEAT JEANS
19  KREVISS
EXPOSE
20 DBS
WASTELAND
21   IMPALOR
I'D CROSS THE FJORDS FOR YOU
22  GAZE
SEA MONKEYS DIE
23 VELVETEENS
FENCE
24 WATERFALL UNDER
TAKJN' MY BREATH AWAY
25 GRAIN ELEVATOR
YOUR
NAME   IN   NEON
26 DIESEL CANDY
HAVE
A  GOOD  DROWN
27 THE FLU
DISAPPEAR
28 SPIRITUAL HEROINE
CAN'T    FIND    IT
29 THE BUSHYTAILS
HOT ROD RONNY
30 THUMBTACK
SEE EMILY
HOME
COUNTDOWN TO
BASS
ARMAGEDDON
■*•*-
CiTR Mobile Sound
1 HARDFLOOR
2 VARIOUS
3 THE PRODIGY
4 JUNO REACTOR
5 SOURMASH
6 SINGLE GUN THEORY
7 CAPM STARGAZER iCOMM. MNDFUCK
8JOEYBELTRAM
9 FREDDIE FRESH
10HARDFLOOR
FISH     &     CHIPS HARTHOUSE
TECHNOHEAD 2 REACT
MUSIC FOR...
HIGH ENERGY PROTONS NOVAMUTE
PILGRIMMAGE TO PARADISE MOONSHINE
FALIXREMLXES) NETTWERK
014 EP EXIST  DANCE
THE CALIBER
GNARLEP
FUNALOGUEEP
WARP
DROP BASS
HARTHOUSE
mmvam
buy the co! get the stickers! wear the T-shirt! feel the snot!
phone the prayer line! live the life! be one of us... today!!!
24 hour free prayer line (604) 268-3952 or (503)768-4001 in
canatia if you r local groovy record store doesn't have
the "FREE SNOT OF JESUS" co, get them to order it for you
from "cargo",or in the u.s.a., order through "Caroline".
write to us with your theological questions or problems...
and enclose a s.a.s.e. , you'll get (absolutely free) stickers
of this (see below) ad, and cartoons etc. t-shirts are 100%
cotton, x-large black or white (specify) of the ad design,
send Si 4.35 (cash only please!) send $5 for genuine phlegmata
INTERNATIONAL
SECULAR   ATAVISM
box 1776
STATION  "A"
VANCOUVER,   B.C.
CANADA v6c-2p7
(scribe  z-hahvey-oswald-27-z)
FREE SNOT OF JESUS
INTERNATIONAL
SECULAR   ATAVISM
Z* October 1994 composer Somy Clai with band 0:<uld Byrd
(trumpet), Hank Mobley (tenor smj and Art
Blackey.
Oct. IOi B^isi Oscar rVttifordlei<Jsr* fine
biit short-lived big band.
Oct. 17i 'Now!', an abum from Ihe late
sorties lhat reflects social and radical change rt
America. Vbisl Bobby Hutcherson with vocal, of
Gene McOaniek, a female chor, and tenor sai
player Harold Land.
Oct 24t An old modem Jan master comes
back to make a very strong point...
Oct. 311 Halloween? *Bkjes for Dracula: by
dnimmerPhilly Joe with Nat Adderley and Johnny
Griffin, plus Joe's great impreu ion of Bela Lugoti:
ON THE DIAL
The ultimate contrast Screwng you over with
nostalgia, Ihen bringing you back to what you
might call reality. We do poetry, bo.
TUESDAYS
THiRDIUaTSTHE CHARM 8.30-11 lOOAMTHaf.
right, bub! Punk-pop, surf-slop, and lots more
h th for yer can Tuner to me. Bryce D., for aii.-M
crud that's got class every Tuesday morning.
fen!
HOOD OH THE SADDLE 1 '00-3-OOPM Counfry
music to scrape the cowshit off your boots to With
yw host-poke Jeff Gray.
and originals. Brraaaah!
AURAL TEMTACJ.ES   MIOMITE - VERT LATE
Warning: This show it moody and unpredictable.
It encourages hsoimia and may prove to be
WEDNESDAYS
ffl£YACinCLUS11i30JUsV1i15PMAr«iticaltour
of Ihe four comers of Ihe musical world. Drop
anchor. Hosted by Malt ADJ.Gav.
LOVE SUCKS lil5-3i00PMTuneheverysecond
Wed. for the musical catharsis that is Love Sucks.
If you cant make sense of ft, at least you can
dance to It!
IMMAN'S KITCHEN 3s00-*m00PM Comngsoorc
new baby 1 new show name! With your host the
Reverend Norman (official vicar of CiTR). p.s. did
you know that Dick Dale was pro. of the Sultan's
Motorcyle Club? True!
ESOTERIK SaOO-7l30)Hftes'o't<r4kl, adL.underetood
by.or htended br, only a select number of disciples;
why does life have to suck so much? guess there's
always squeaky to cheer us up . . squeeky!
squeeky! squeeky! squeeky!
FROM AFRICA TO AMERICA Alternating,
OUT FOR KICKS 6iOO-7i30PM No Birktnstocks,
nothing politically correct We don't get paid so
you're damn right we have fun with il Hosted by
Chris B.
OLD SCHOOL R0CKARuti7i3O-tkO0M Roots of
Rock 'n' Roll - If you don'l get into Rock V Roll
Heaven don'l blame me!
LIVE FROM THUNDERBIRD RADIO HELL OiOO-
0ctl3.Tb.Tw
SUNDAYS
of time is measured by its art Most broadcasting
shuns art for incestuous market-musk. This show
presents the most recent new music from around
the world. Ears op en. HosledbyPauiSteenhuisen
and Ian Crutch ley.
THE ROCKERS SHOW 12i00-3i0OPM Reggae ma
all stylet and fashion. Mke Cherry and Peter
Williams alternate as hosts.
SOUL CHURCH 3i00-5i00PM Alternating Sundays
with Brent Argo. Vancouver's only program devoted entirely to AfricaivCanadian and African-
American Gospel mutk. Your host, Vince Yeh.
a human-answering machine. Got a quarter Ihen
call someone who caret.
THE CiTR DINNER REPORT 5i00-5.3OPM The
mother of all news broadcasts. Princess Andrea
and her team: Jedi Knight Angus, Leanna
Skywaker, and Gran Moff Stefan bring you the
Force of the news, dark side and all.
A. Vnnie Carpela and
jrofpuretightoantt,
Hiing POLYESTER!
lOiOOPMGeetanjali is a one-
hour radio show which features a wide range of
musk from India. This indudet classical mutk,
both Hindustani and Camabc, popular musk from
Semi-classkal music such at Ghazalt and
Bhajant, and also Ouawwalis, Fok Songs, elc.
Hosted by J. Dhar. A Patel and V. Ranjan.
itt Dave Emory and colleague Nip Tuck for
me extraordinary political research guaranteed
i make you think twke. Bring your tape deck and
n C-eOt. Originally broadcast on KFJC (Lot
MONDAYS
THEM0IUir«SH0*li7i30-«il'MMWakeupw*
all Ihe newt, sports and weather you need. Plus
what's happening at UBC each day wilh UBC
Digest, a feature interview and more. Wilh Ihe
iKtVoridS.rinc.N««sat8.O0AM,livefrom
London, England.
•"nTAKFASTMfflTHEtmOWNSSll^lliOOAM
Your favourite browrvstert, James and Peter,
offer a savoury blend of the familiar and eiobcii
an aictUngry luscious blend of aural delights!
Tune in and enjoy each weekly brown plate spe-
MEl(AMI«L0tlJEinN0aE1i0O-3i()O>MOTRs
mo stfyindus trial/noise/ ambient show, with wimpy
B-ifah pop, Beastk Boys, ridie guitar swiig, and
olfactory        nerve        centre        with
(onfywhenlspeakJ.aworkofmjskbyatwenbelh-
m you tty mkiimalitt?—
ke appeals to me. Fag and dyke
k with Captain
lian,  bisexual, and transsenual
ss of Vancouver and listened to by
muskiant of all sexual preferences and
leridentibet.Thit show hat everything except
me. Any suggestions?
Green explores woridoeat m
Kirk, Spock and occasional celebrities.
THE PEAKING CANUCK 7iOO-0iOOPM If you are
suffering an identity critk you may want to tone
Ho this show more than once. Your hott Bob
Willis ton chronkles Canada in 20th Century sound
every second week.
IHE JAZZ SHOW SiOOPM-12i00AM
Vancouver'! longest running prime Bme jazz program. Hosted by the ever-suave Gavri Waker.
Feakires at II.
Oct Ii    "My Conception' by pianist/
In mutk and grrrlt in mutk; two hourt of into and
rawk. Ya don't need a penis to be a musical
Genius! Coral and Trith.
fHE UNHEARD MUSIC 7iOO-SiOOPM Meal the
Vancouver's onfy tropical fiesta express with your
loco hosts Wendi, Rolando, and Mateo at they
shake it and wiggle It to the blest to Salsa,
THURSDAYS
RABOrmWOMEN 10.00-1 li30AMGongboklly
where no man hat gone before! We interview
happenin' women! We yack! We spin tunes!
Hosted by Anna, Deb and Krkta.
QUUDIANLU*W»Ui30^liOXli*MToou>s,pbids,
i, Cumbia and other fiery fiesta fav
SABROSA'!
rOLFATTHEOCO
Ing Tuesdays wi* SfraightOuttaJallundhar. Live
STRAIGHT OUnA JALLUNDHAOR 10.00-
12i00 AM Let DJ't Jindwa and Bindwa immerse
you in radioactive Bhungra! "Chakkh de phutay*.
YOUR DREAM VACATION Si30-Ci00PM
here. Join me in the love den for a cocktail. We'll
hear retro stuff, groovy jazz, and thicker stuff too.
See you here... and bring some ke. XOXX
UTTU TWIN STAMA*L«iriil<)-iil-2i30PM Strap
on your vinyl Go Go boots for an in torgalactk ride
to the stars. Hello Kitty!
NARDWUAR THE HUMAN SERVIETTE PRESENTS. 3i3O-4i0OPMCIeo!Cleo!Cleo!
HIE QTR DINNER REPORT 5i00-5i30PM Mission
completed for Ihe International Rescue Team.
They pose for a photo before dinner on Tracy
Island!
COCKTAILSWITHDARYLANDSUSI Altematin|
•th from Africa to America 61OO-O1OOPM
Underground sound system-style maslermix
Are You
Serious?
Music
ROCKERS
SHOW
Breakfast
with the
third time's the
Music as a hole
Compact
Disco
Venus Flytrap's
Love Den
THE
SATURDAY
EDGE
POWER
CHORD
DIGITAL
ALARM
CHRCNOMETER
Radio Free
WOMEN
I Bee Normal
the
STUPID RADIO
SHOW
helcn's hut
NEW SHOW
THE YACHT
CLUB
CANADIAN
LUNCH
MEKANIKAL
OBJEKT
NOIZE
BLOOD ON
THE
SADDLE
LOVE
SUCKS
M&S
lo fi / little
sugarlump
TANiA
BRENT ARGO/
Soul Church
Meat-Eating
VFGAN
Mary Tyler
Moore
NORMAN'S
KITCHEN
FLEX YOUR
HEAD
AFRICAN
SHOW
NARDWUAR/
Feminine Hy-jinx
Heather's
Flaming
House
ESOTERIK
OUT FOR
KICKS
COCKTAILS
WITH
DARYL
AND
SUSI
THE
HIPHOP
SHOW
THE PEAKING
CANUCK/
hip hop habit
UNHEARD
MUSIC
and sometime,
OLD SCHOOL
ROCK & ROLL
Lulu's Back
JEFF&DAVE
GeeTaNJaLi
THE
JAZZ
SHOW
RITMO
LATINO
AFRICAN
VARIETY
LIVE FROM
THUNDERBIRD
RADIO HELL
HOME
BASS
shports
ONE STEP
BEYOND/
RADIO FREE
AMERICA
WOLF AT
THE DOOR/
Str8 Outta
Jallundar
POPGUN
GROOVE
JUMPING/
JEFF&
WOZZLE
RADIO T.Y./
TALES FROM
THE INFINITE
LIVINGROOM
IN THE
GRIP OF
INCOHERENCY
SCREAMING
INCONSISTENCIES
AURAL
TENTACLES
THEORY.RFA
Sink
SUMMER
OF
HATE
SOMETHING
FOR THE RECORD Ei30-6i45PM Eicerpts
from Dave Emory's Radul Frtt America
Series.
Oryrnpta! retrotpective
- Attentat.. °'tne "avor
retrospectives, giveaways, and more are part
TALES FROM THE INFINITE LIVINGROOM ■
Ueraating with RTY11 iOO-I AM JoinChris
Pariah at he explores the Metanoid stales and
ptycho-tonk scapes of The Infinite Lwingroom,
wntional space between perpleied
ss and profound absurdity.
*JI«ER0FHATEliOttAM-«rtM»vwweitro«
Thrilling car chatet. heart-slopping fight
FRIDAYS
Oct 7: UMP SINK 3rd Anniversary Special
show with Fritter A Pat
Oct 14: The Doctor Killdare Show
Oct 21: Enslurzende Neubauten special
show wtti Fritter 1 Pat
Oct 26: The Doctor Killdare Show
SATURDAYS
in its 10th year on the air, The Edge on Fok
features mutk you won't hear anywhere elte,
studio guests, new releases, Brirlth comedy
sketches, folk music calendar, ticket
giveaways, etc., plus World Cup Renert at
11 :M AM. 8-8 AM: Afrkan/World roots. 9-12
noon: Celtic music and feature performances.
MWERCHORO 12l00-3i00PM Vancouver's
only true metal show; local demo tapes, imports and other rarities. Gerald Rattlehead
and Metal Ron do the damage.
THE AFRICAN SHOW 3.00-&00PM lit a music
thing from all "Africa." It's an awareness
thing ofseff and others. It's an African house
party. Stories, musk, dance fun. Wekome!
Your hosts: Umerah and Mawele.
THE SHOW 61OO-81OOPM Strictly Hip Hop -
Strictly Undergound - Strictly Vinyl With
your hosts Craig G, Mr. Checka t J Swing on
the I A 2's.
GROOVE JUMPING 1OiOOPM-l lOOAM Terry,
Wonle. Jeff, Warren Who will it be? Who
knows! Who cares! It rocks! Go figure.
SOMETHING liM-4iOOAMchgentlemen!twalfaw
your prayers, because Ihe wind makes a mockery
of men and your soul becomes 1 fish/ you swim
in idle waters/ and drink other fish's piss/ your
soul feeds on fish/ oh piss, puss, and men/ who,
h turn, become, at you have become/ A fish,
NEW SHOWS:
FEMININE HY-JINX,
women positive spoken-
word+music, hosted by
Krista. (Mon. 4-5pm)
LITTLE TWIN STARS,
more of that indie rock we
(Friday, 1:00-2:30pm)
moves to Wed. 8:30-
9:30am, STR8 OUTTA
JALLUNDAR moves to
alternating Tues. 10pm-
12am. Cooleeee!!!!
Ahem, this is just a litde
reminder: if you have an
idea for a show, then
come on up to the station
and talk to the
programme director. We
want (need) your ideas,
bub!
WHOM   Sc   HOW
ARTS l.n McKinnon
Harry Herttcheg
ENTERTAINMENT
SECRETARY
VICE
Fern Webb
m Raggett
VOLUNTEER COORDINATOR
RESIDENT SERVIETTENAHDVVUAR
BUSINESS UNE 604/822-3017
DJ LINE 804/822-2487 (UBC-CiTRJ
MUSIC DEP'T. 604/822-0733
NEWS    LINE 604/822-5334
FAX LINE 804/822-9364
&m&m& FRI30 IDAREYOUTOGOTOTHK GIG JASON PRIESTLEY! Nardwuar
the Human Serviette presents Karp, thee Evaporators, Two Tonne Bowlers &
thee Goblins at Crosstown Traffic (all-ages)...El Caminos <Sc dbs at the Hungry Eye...Sandra Bernhard at the Vogue...Rumplesteelskin & Omnibol at the
Starfish...The Wingnuts at the Malcolm Lowry Room...Babe Gurr w/special
guests at the Railway...The Tea Party, Triple Joy <fc the Gandharvas at the
Commodore...Friday Folk at Koemer's i(^x»eTei^~Steafa£JJjnrujan at the
W.I.S.E. Hall (8:30pm)...Baba Faridart£Queii&>ir^Smt Love i
Aunts at Ihe Town Pump...Alternative DaRst^flght at Gradtland...Wig
at the Waldorf I lotel Pol ynesian jAnge.JpeShadow (7pm) L Wolf £ *
at UBC Cinema...
SAT 1 Truman's Water, The Suprem^bicks & Blai^ascjlpuie Starfish
Room...Sandra Bernhard at the Vogue!rfkam^fffiDiva,J&^TooXh Corny
bine <fe Grace at the Hungry Eye...the Selecter at the Towpr^mp...CassanrJi
Wilson at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre (8prn^SMeaven &Jte'
Commodore...Veda Hille with spoitgg^gf4hvMs^S&^Jla»x*I'*' Jill Fraser
at the @ Gallery (9pm)...Techno & Dance Night with DJ Noah at
Graceland...Equinox with DJ's Taylor (LA.), Marx, Little T, Markem X &
Quickfix (893 0203)... Country Dance w/Kay & The Tall Boys at the W.I.S.E.
Hall (8:30pm)...Junkhouse at the Rail way... Lloyd Jones Struggle at the Yale...
Latin Explosion at 86 Street (8prn)...The Shadow (7pm) &. Wolf (9:30pm) at
UBC Cinema...
SUN 2 Thinking Fellers Union Local 0282 & Superconductor at the Starfish
Room... Rock 'n Soccer Ball featuring Junkhouse, Colin James, Art Bergmann,
Rhymes With Orange, Pure, West End Girls, Tone Loc & Pharcyde, Annette
Ducharme & Terry David Mulligan at the Commodore..Ed Wood Jr. Night
at the Railway...The Shadow (7:30pm) & Wolf (9pm) at UBC Cinema...
MON 3 CiTR & SCRATCH RECORDS PRESENT RUINS, HEDGEHOG
& ROUGHAGE AT THE ANZA.Sam Phillips, T-Bone Burnette & Friend
at the Starfish...Julio Iglesias, Bobby Collins at Ihe Queen E...Escape Goats
at the Railway...
TUE 4 CiTR PRESENTS SHINDIG AT THE RAILWAY CLUB.Juho
Iglesias at the Queen E...Heavy D & Ihe Boyz at the Coliseum.Debbie Davies
at the Yale...Disco night at Ihe Commodore...
WED 5 Vinyl with DJ's T-Bone <fc Dickey Doo at the Slarfish...Debbie Davies
at die Yale...Frayed Knots, Insomniacs & Belly Button Window at Ihe Hungry Eye...Memphis Slax al the Town Pump...The Ratjackets at the
Railway...Reggae Night at Graceland... Matters of the Flesh at the Fireball
Arts Centre...American Friend (7pm) & Paris Texas (9:30pm) at UBC
Cinema...Latin Beat at the UBC Grad Centre (8:30pm)...
THU 6 SUB-SONICTHURSDAYS FEATURING THE RATTLED ROOSTERS, MAHONES AT THE PIT PUB (NO COVER)...Tinga Tinga with DJ's
Flyte & Friendly Planet at the Twilight Zone.The Bottle with DJ's Clarence
& David "Love" Jones at the Picadilly...Tinsley Ellis at the Town
Pump...Matters of the Flesh at the Fireball Arts Centre.House & Dance Night
at Graceland...Debbie Davies at the Yale...Rhythm Method w/special guests
at the Railway...Unplugged Folk/Rock Coffee House & Jam night at the UBC
Grad Centre (9:30pm)...American Friend (7pm) & Paris Texas (9:30pm) at
UBC Cinema...
FRI 7 Kim Mitchell, Blu Bones & itch at Ihe Commodore.King Cobb
Steelie at the Town Pump...Friday Folk at Koerner's (no cover)...UHF at the
Vancouver East Cultural Centre (8pm)... Veda Hille & her band at the Railway... Debbie Davies at the Yale... FunJcadelic at the UBC Grad CentrcThe
Ludwigs at Cafe deux Soleil...Matters of the Flesh at the Firehall Arts
Centre...Alternative Dance Night at Graceland...Airheads (7pm) & Speed
(9:30pm) at UBC Cinema...
SAT 8 CiTR PRESENTS GIRL TROUBLE, THEE SMUGGLERS,
ZUMPANO ATTHE STARFISH ROOM...Vague Special featuring Ten Days
Late, Cinnamon, Staked Plain & the Cowards at Crosstown Traffic (all
ages)...Lee Aaron & the Headstones at the Commodore...The Ludwigs at
Cafe deux Soleil...Veda Hille & her band at Ihe Railway.Cajun Dance at the
W.I.S.E. Hall (8:30pm)...Matters of the Flesh at the Firehall Arts Centre...UHF
at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre (8pm)...Down By Law, Atom Smasher
& Sourpuss at the Town Pump...Debbie Davies at Ihe Yale... Midnight Shift
with DJ's T-Bone, Ursula & Dickey Doo at District Coffee. ..Noah's Arc (techno
& dance) with DJ Noah at Graceland...Evolution (the reunion) with DJ's Jon
Williams, Tony, Maxx, Mike Stevens & Donald Glaude (206 236
3193)...Airheads (7pm) & Speed (9:30pm) at UBC Cinema...
SUN 9 The Mahones at the Town Pump...Gail Bowen & Friends; gospel,
blues & jazz at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre(8pm)...Matters of the
Flesh at the Firehall Arts Centre...Kung Fu II at the Railway... Airheads (7pm)
& Speed (9:30pm) at UBC Cinema...
MON 10 L7, Melvins & Wool at the Commodore (all-ages)...Tammy & the
Americans at the Glass Slipper...Milla at Ihe Town Pump (nocover)...Matters
of the Flesh at the Firehall Arts Centre... Hazel Motes at Ihe Railway.Tannahill
Weavers at the W.I.S.E. Hall (8pm)...free Tai Chi at the UBC Grad Centre
(12:35pm)...
TUE 11 CiTR PRESENTS SHINDIG FEATURING GROVER FUR, UNIVERSAL LOUNGE ACT, ARTHUR ELLIS AT THE RAILWAY
CLUB...Disco Night at the Commodore...Matters of the Flesh at the Firehall
Arts Centre.Pool Tourney at the UBC Grad Centre (7pm)...
WED 12 Stephen Fearing & Veda Hille at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre (8pm)...Reggae Night at Graceland..Vinyl wilh DJ's T-Bone & Dickey
Doo at the Starfish...Matters of the Flesh at the Firehall Arts
Centre...Insomniacs <fe Ford Pier at the Railway...Latin Beat at the UBC Grad
Centre (8:30pm)...What's Up Tiger Lily (7pm) & Annie Hall (9:30pm) at
UBC Cinema...
THU 13 CiTR PRESENTS THE SPINNANES AT THE STARFISH
ROOM...Sub-Sonic Thursdays featuring Funk N Stein at the Pit Pub (no
zd October 1994
cover)...Stephen Fearing, V eda Hille at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre
(8pm)...Unplugged Folk/Rock Coffee House & Jam night at the UBC Grad
Centre (9:30pm)...Arrogant Worms at the WI.S.E. Hall...Matters of the Flesh
at the Firehall Arts Centre...Knock Down Ginger w/Gloriosa at the
Railway.Tinga Tinga with DJ's Flyte & Friendly Planet at the Twilight
Zone...The Bottle with DJ's Clarence & David "Love" Jones at the Picadilly...
House & Dance Night at Graceland...What's Up Tiger Lily (7pm) & Annie
Hall (9:30pm) at UBC Cinema...
FRI 14 itch, Bushytails, dbs, WooWoos at the Southjpril (all
I ages)...Oktoberfest at the Comma^ife...Tom Russell & AndjeJPHardin a
! the WI.S.E. Hall (8:30pm)... AlierflaUwDaiicc Night at Grac#nd...Matters
of the Fleshy at the FirehaJMprts Centre..j;unkadelic jgpe UBC Grad
JohnZ
Masada at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre (8pm)...The Stoaters at the
Railway.Oktoberfest at the Commodore..Matters of the Flesh at the Firehall
Arts Centre... Midnight Shift with DJ's T-Bone, Ursula & Dickey Doo at
District Coffee...Techno <fc Dance Night with DJ Noah at Graceland...Sin
with DJ's Ursula, T-Bone, Dickey Doo & Mick Shea at the Lux...Four Weddings & a Funeral (7pm) <& The Client (9:30) at UBC Cinema...
MON 17 Reading Railroad at the Railway...Bryan Adams at the Hungry
Eye.cheap night at the Hollywood..free Tai Chi at the UBC Grad Centre
(12:45pm)...ZooBoogaloo with DJ Spun-K at the Starfish...
TUE 18 CiTR PRESENTS SHINDIG FEATURING GOB, THE
PAPILLOMAS, TBA AT THE RAILWAY CLUB...Disco Night at the
Commodore...Strains at the Station Street Arts Centre (8pm) (2 for l)...free
Tai Chi at the UBC Grad Centre (12:45pm)...
WED 19 MC 900 Foot Jesus, Consolidated, Spoonman at the Commo-
dore...Reggae Night at Graceland...Vinyl with DJ's T-Bone & Dickey Doo at
the Starfish...Elizabeth Fischer w/special guests at the Railway...Strains at
Station Street (8pm)...Latin Beat at the UBC Grad Centre (8:30pm)...TBA
(7pm) & Company of Wolves (9:30pm) at UBC Cinema...
THU 20 SUB-SONIC THURSDAYS FEATURING ECONOUNE CRUSH
AT THE PIT PUB (NO COVER)...Don Ross & Clive Gregson at the W.I.S.E.
Hall (8:00pm)...Elizabeth Fischer w/special guests at the Railway...Unplugged
Folk/Rock Coffee House &. Jam night at the UBC Grad Centre
(9:30pm)...Strains at Station Street (8pm)...The Bottle with DJ's David "Love"
Jones & Clarence at Ihe Picadilly...House & Dance Night at Graceland...Tinga
Tinga wilh DJ's Flyte & Friendly Planet at the Twilight Zonc.TBA (7pm) &
Company of Wolves (9:30pm) at UBC Cinema...
FRI 21 Coal w/special guests at the Railway...Steve Coleman A Five Ele-
menls at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre (8pm)...Friday Folk at Koemer's
(no cover)... Oktoberfest at the Commodore...Alternative Dance Night at
GraceIand...The Star Catalogues at the Russian Hall...Funkadelic at the UBC
Grad Centre...Strains at Station Street (8pm)...TBA (7pm) & The Mask
(9:30pm) at UBC Cinema...
SAT 22 Facepuller, the Many, Chronometer at the Hastings Community
Center (all ages)...Furnaceface, Trigger Happy, Ponyboy, dbs at the new York
Theatre (all ages)...Oktoberfest at the Commodore...Coal w/special guests at
the Railway...Vin Garbutt at the WI.S.E. Hall (8:30pm)...Strains at Station
Street (8pm)...Midnight Shift with DJ's T-Bone, Ursula &. Dickey Doo at
District Coffee...Techno&. Dance Night with DJ Noah at Graceland...Dubtribe
with DJ's Quest (Seattle), Czech A T-Bone at the Lux...TBA (7pm) & The
Mask (9:30pm) at UBC Cinema...
SUN 23 Cowboy Night at the Railway...The Star Catalogues at the Russian
Hall... Strains at Station Street (8pm)...TBA (7pm) & The Mask (9:30pm) at
UBC Cinema...
MON 24 Grrrls with guitars at the Railway...Strains at the Station Street
Arts Centre (8pm)...cheap date night at the Hollywood...free Tai Chi at the
UBC Grad Centre (12:45pm)...ZooBoogaloo wilh DJ Spun-K at the Starfish...
TUE 25 QTR PRESENTS SHINDIG FEATUING SQUEEKY, MAJORTE
CALDWELL ORBIT IN BLOOM ATTHE RAILWAY CLUB...Disco Night
at the Commodore...Strains at Station Street (8pm) (2 for l)...free Tai Chi
(12:45pm) & Pool Tourney at the UBC Grad Centre (7pm)...
WED 26 The Star Catalogues at the Russian Hall.Scibble at the
Railway...Strains at Station Street (8pm)...Vinyl with DJ's T-Bone & Dickey
Doo at the Starfish Room... Reggae Night at Graceland.. Latin Beat at the
UBC Grad Centre (8:30pm)...Birdy (7pm) & Heathers (9:30pm) at UBC Cin-
THU 27 SUB-SONICTHURSDAYS ATTHE PIT PUB FEATURING PEOPLE PLAYING MUSIC, JAZZBERRY RAM AT THE PIT PUB (NO
COVER)...Attila the Stockbroker at the Railway-Standard Changes at the
Glass Slipper (9:30pm)...William Gibson at the Vogue (8pm)...Unplugged
Folk/Rock Coffee House & Jam night at the UBC Grad Centre
(9:30pm)...Tinga Tinga with DJ's Flyte & Friendly Planet at the Twilight
Zone...The Bottle with DJ's David "Love" Jones & Clarence at the
Picadilly...House <fe Dance Night at Graceland...Strains at Station Street
(8pm)...Birdy (7pm) & Heathers (9:30pm) at UBC Cinema...
FRI 28 Hard Rock Miners at the Railway...Friday Folk at Koemer's (no
cover)... Martin Carthy & Dave Swarbrick at the W.I.S.E. Hall (8:30pm)...The
Star Catalogues at the Russian Hall...Strains at Station Street
(8pm)...Alternative Dance Night at Graceland...Atlantis with DJ's Markie-
Mark, Garth, Carlos, T-Bone, Quest, Mario & Kipp at Pier 48 (206 292
1478)...Psycho (7pm) & The Exorcist (9:30pm) at the UBC Cinema...
SAT 29 itch, WooWoos & guests at Crosstown Traffic (all ages)... Bill Bourne
& Shannon Johnson at the W.I.S.E. Hall (8:30pm)...Hard Rock Miners at the
Railway...The Star Catalogues at the Russian Hall...Strains at Station Street
(8pm)...Midnight Shift with DJ's T-Bone, Ursula <& Dickey Doo at District
Coffee...Techno & Dance Night with DJ Noah at Graceland...Halloween Party
with DJ's Ursula, T-Bone, Dickey Doo & guests at 940 Richards (689 7734)...
Jazz Yo Azz with DJ's Clarence & Luis at the Anza...Hallow's Eve with DJ's
T-Bone, Dickey Doo, Czech & Quik Fix (89M*203)... Psycho (7pm), The
Exorcist (9:30pm)AThe Rocky Hon, * Pn*ur< Six <* (midnight) at the UBC
30 New Sci-Fj Horror at the WrWay...Gj*ln*l Gyani at the Vancouver
^**   Exorcist (9:30pm) at the
ION 3flj<Jawnaked Laflfs at thelQiMXfn E...Halloween Bash at the
Railway...cheap date night at the Hollywood...free Tai Chi at the UBC Grad
Centre (12:45pm)... ZooBoogaloo with DJ Spun-K at the Starfish...
VTNUESVEMJESVENTJE^
Alma Street Cafe 2505 Alma (at Broadway) 222 2244
Anza Club 3 W 8th (Mount Pleasant) 876 7128
Arts Hotline 684 2787
@ Gallery   110 W Hastings (downtown) 685 0509
Backstage Lounge 1585 Johnston (Granville Island) 687 1354
Cafe Deux Soleil 2096 Commercial (the Drive) 254 1195
Cafe Mango 52PoweIl (Gastown)
Cafe Vieux Montreal 317 E Broadway (Mount Pleasant) 873 1331
Caprice Theatre 965 Granville (Granville Mull) 683 6099
Celebrities 1022 Davie (West End) J      689 3180
CNImax Theatre 999 Canada Place (downtown)   ! 682 4629
Commodore Ballroom 870 Granville (Granville Mall) 681 7838
Contemporary Art Gallery 555 Hamilton (Yaletown)
Crosstown Traffic 316 W Hastings (downtown)
Dciunan Place Cinema 1030 Denman (West End) 683 2201
District Coffee  1035 Mainland (Yaletown) 687 0032
Firehall Arts Centre 280 E Cordova (at Main) £ 689 0926
Glass Slipper 2714 Prince Edward (Mount Pleasant) 877 0066
Graceland 1250 Richards (downtown) 688 2648
Hustings Community Centre 2096 E Hastings (East Van) 255 2606
Hemp B.C. 324 W Hastings (downtown) ;      681 4620
Hollywood Theatre 3123 W Broadway (KitsUano) 738 3211
Howde n Ballroom 1313 Granville (downtown)
Hungry Eye 23 W Cordova (Gastown)            | 688 5351
Koerner's Puh Gate 4 (UBC) 822 0999
La Quena 1111 Commercial Drive (the Drive) 251 6626
Lav-A-Fair 1275 Seymour (downtown) 685 3288
Lux Theatre 57 E Hastings (Gastown)                   |   ; 682 5455
Makolm Ix>wry Room 4125 K Hastings (Burnaby) <>o5 0143
Maximum Blues Pub  1176 Granville (downtown) 688-8701
Odyssey 1251 Howe (West End) 689 5256
Old American 928 Main (downtown)             ,:j: 682 3291
Orpheum Theatre   Smithe & Seymour (downtown) 665 3050
Pacific Cinematheque  1131 Howe (downtown) 7313456
Paradise Cinema 919 Granville (GranviUe Mall) 6811732
Park Theatre 3440 Cambie (South Vancouver) 876 2747
Picadilly Pub 630 W Pender (downtown) 682 3221
Pit Pub basement, Student Union Building (UBC) 822 6273
Pitt Gallery 317 W Hastings (downtown) 681 6740
Plaza Theatre 881 Granville (Granville Mall) 685 7050
Punk Listing* 684PIN( =
Railway Club 579 Dunsinuir (downtown) 681 1625
Ridge Cinema 3131 Arbutus (at 16th Avenue)      1 738 6311
Russian Hall 600 Campbell (Chinatown) 874 6200
Shaggy Horse 818 Richards (downtown) 688 2923
South wall 23rd & Lonsdale (North Van) "980 5202
Speedy O'Tubbs Fairview (Bellingham)                   (206) 734 1539
Starfish Room 1055 Homer (downtown)             * 682 4171
Slurlight Cinema  935 Dciuiian < West End) bH? W96
Station Street Arts Centre 930 Station (downtown) 688 3312
3B Tavern 1226 State (Bellingbam)                          (206)7341881
Town Pump 66 Water Street (Gastown) 683 6695
Twilight Zone 7 Alex&er (Castown) 682 8550 s
UBC Cinema Student Union Building (UBC) 822 36971
UBC Crad Centre   Gate 4 (UBC) 822 0999
Vancouver East Cultural Centre 1895 Venables "(fae Drive) 254 9578
Vancouver Centre Cioetua 650 W Georgla(Graovaie MaO) .669 4442 ,
Vancouver International Film Festival Hotline ,685 8352 ;
Varsity Theatre 4375 W 10th Avenue (Point Grey) 222 2235
Video In 1965 Main (South Van) 872 8337
Vogue Theatre 918 Granville (Granville Mall) 257 6205
Waterfront Theatre 1405 Anderson (Granville Island) 685 6217
W.I.S.E. Hall 1882 Adanae (the Drive) 254 5858
Yale Blues Pub 1300 Granville (downtown) 6819253
SUBMISSIONS FOK DATEBOOK ARE ERKE! PLEASE FAX YOUR LISTINGS FOR THE NOVEMBER ISSUE ATTENTION "DISCORDER
DATEBOOK" ON 822-9364 BY TUE PRINT DEADLINE, OCTOBER 20. CANADA'S LARGEST AND BEST KNOWN RECORD STORES
H.B. CONCEPT
Local recording artists H.B.
Concept's new CD Searching for the
Lost City is a bitchin' brew of hot funk
and steamy ballads with a jazzin',
rockin', soul flavour. Ex-Hendrix
drummer, Buddy Miles lends his vocal
energy to make this CD a must have.
24 JOY
Greatesthitslivevolume2unplugged
SING SING DEAD MAN
 Skin	
Sing Sing Dead Man's debut
CD Skin consists of a dozen dark,
powerful songs combining
thoughtful lyrics with strong
melodies. "The best debut CD of
all time!"-Mike Rashed, SSDM
bass playt
THRILL SQUAD
It's Party Time!
With lotsa guitars and tons of
melodies, this is pop music as it
should be: loud and fun and full of
catchy hooks. Features ex-
members of Go Four 3.
One guy from England, anothei
from Canada, mix them together
and you get 24 Joy. Their
debut CD release is a unique
blend of pop/rock with an
original dance groove.
Attention Au Bands!!
Do you have an undistributed
demo CD or tape? Sam's carries
Western Canada's largest
Selection of independent product and can distribute them to
stores across Canada!
VARIOUS ARTISTS
CLOSET COLLECTIONS AND CONCEPTIONS
DONE WITH DIGNITY
No Morals
I
E
1
«
i
,    MORALS    H
,.       T
Y
No Morals from Done with
Dignity, six song cassette
featuring track Death by Press
from Closet Rock Collections
CD. No mind altering drugs
necessary, unless...
Closet Rock 'zine compilation CD
only $6.99 Featuring: August Frost,
BasketCase, Caustic Thought,
Cinnamon, The Daisy Chain, Darkest
of the Hillside Thickets, Done with
Dignity, McRackins, Minority, Powder
Finger, Scooter Trash, Scrag.
ANOTHER WHITE MALE
Yesterday Rolled By...
"This act from Vancouver is easily one
of the best acts I've heard from Canada
to blend industrial with metal."—Drew
Masters, Meat Mag. A.W.M is the raw
energy of tomorrow not of what's been
done."—David Hawkes, Radio DJ
AVAILABLE AT 568 SEYMOUR ST (DOWNTOWN)
SPARKMARKER
Final Notice Records finally releases
Sparkmarker's CD debut, as
documented with their two recording
sessions in New York City. 13 Songs in
total with visual art of local artist Ken
Gerberick on the Cover.
WICKED SWIMMING DOG
Fruit, Sex & Tinkerbell
Grant Lawrence thinks we're metal,
but then again he thinks The
Smugglers are punk.
For More Information on
consigning your music at
Sam's, ask for Rob Zgeljic
at our 568 Seymour St.
Locaton. All types of
music accepted.
S.O.L.
White Lie Ward
S.O.L.'s White Lie Wardxs a searing
and relentless listen. Powerful,
explosive, never ending, the band's dark
character captures the listener,
wrapping them in an assault of grinding
guitars and gut wrenching reality.
2?$m°mm 1869 W 4th Avenue
Vancouver, BC
V6J1M4
CANADA
tel 604.738.3232
STORE HOURS
Mon to Wed 10:30-7:00
Thurs and Fri 10:30-9:00
Sat 9:30-6:30
Sun 12:00-6:00
Gobble, Gobble, Hey! Joey says. "Check out these choice cuts
to make any Thanksgiving month a pleasure! You won't go fowl with these ones!"
American Music Club
• San Francisco
San Francisco is a beautiful city, Rill of
interesting stories. But it also has an uncertain sadness throughout. The same can also
he said for AMC and their new album.
Singer/songwriter Marc Eitzel has long
been praised as one of America's finest song-
smiths and dus album seems destined to lift
him above the purgatorial label of "Critics
Darling." Give the guy a hand and pick up
this wonderful piece of work.
O 16.98 B 10.98
Eric's Trip
• Forever Again
Oh so beautiful. Eric's Trip's second full-
length lor Sub Pop hcai t-achingly moves
closer to die essence ol their particular songwriting style: biographic melancholy captured very, very quietly. Hiss, click, crack,
pop. And yes, they are Canadian.
O 1498 S 9.98
Daniel Johnston
• Fun
for (hose of you who might not be familiar
with him, Daniel Johnston is a really
strange guy from Austin who has been making tapes and records tot quite a long time.
He has lots of neat friends like Sonic Youth,
Half Japanese and the Butthole Surfers.
His songs are deceivingly child-like and
they're funny and they're sad Wthey have
lots of wisdom. They can make your bad
O 16.98 ' G=)  10.98
Liz Phair
• Whip Smart
If I were Lb Phair, I would be
sophomore effort, tons of attention, high
expectations - yikes. Good thing Whip
Smart is such a great record. Characteristically singing about the resoundingly real
and salient issues of everyday life and
employing the tactfully appropriate and
powerful use of the word "tuck," Whip
Smart further establishes Liz Phair as a
dynamic, creative and crucial contemporary
singer songwriter.
O 1498 S 9.98
Pizzicato Five
• Five Against Five
This Japanese band has been releasing
incredibly catchy dance-oriented-with-a-
tunst records for years but this five-song
mini-album is the first to reach our shores.
It's fun and cool, so be the first on your
block to buy it and be prepared for
Pizzicato Five Mania, 'cause it's a coming!
O 10.98
Smog
• Burning Kingdom
Redefining the term "brood" in newly
expanded musical terms, Bill Smog's introversion is enabled most accessibly. Drums
and strings provide rich and effective in the
Burning Kingdom, displaying a creative
possibility up til now unexamined by Mr.
Smog's
Sparkmarker
® Products & Accessories
Vancouver's virtuous nice guys' do-it-them-
selves full-length rocks in a big, loud and
heavy way, demanding that these local
pleasantly righteous faves have "mighty"
permanently fixed to the beginning of their
name. Take note, folks: this disk compiles
some previously released 7-inch stuff.
O 9.98
The Wedding Present
# Watusi
Changing gears from the Albini-produced
Sea Monsters record, David Ge4ge + Co. are
back with a warmer, poppiet sound on
Watusi These Brits have never seemed to
get the exposure they deserve, but this
record adds unique guitar sounds and distinctive vocals, all washed over with trembling keyboards and even some trombone,
it can at least be our little secret. And hey...
it was recorded in the same studio as Hearts
Bad Animals, so you know it has to rock!
O 16.98 '   S 10.98
Various Artists
® Rock Stars Kilt
counter-culture poprockarama. Featuring
current, brilliant non-stars Smog, Free
Kitten, Helium, Rancid, Team Dresch,
and many more that you won't read abc>ut
in People oi Us
O 12.9
S 8.9(
1
4.<
>8
Thinking Fellers
Union Local 282
® Strangers from the
Universe
Heaps of praise are moved again for
one of Zulu's favourite San Francisco
bands. Thinking Fellers Union
Local 282 entertain more than they
perplex - but they do that pretty well
too. Shrugging off descriptions and
definitions as limiting and
ing, Thinking Fellers whip up
another unique release for your
enjoyment and exploration.
O 1498 S 9.98
We also have box sets, collectc
t-shirts, and all manner of oddities and
stuff. Look for yourself!
O = cd        GS = cassette       S3 = pho.
Coming soon on Zulu Records the Label! Lavinia's Tongue, Sook-Yin Lee's debut solo album!