 M»«! sticky """g-azmsJrei" cMr g^9l,ft
• 1 _.__x___*        ""    ff
|tily *993   free
fTW
cwl f cur J^K| J J1J&-* Jewy ««««*
on ei
iti|uku lhi_s_FV
ctvyp
Icttiel
local
music
X This is our first album, called
"The Smalls" that we recorded
before "To Each A Zone", plus three
new songs. It's been out of print for a
couple of years and we've just re-released it
nationally so we'll be on the road all summer
to support it. You can get "The Smalls"
and "To Each A Zone" at your local
record store through GA^QQ TSFCGSES.
HUEVOS
RANCHEROS
Endsville *^#
CS/CD
PROPAGANDHI
How to XJ9
_ Clean
Everything
LP/CS/CD
LEMONHEADS
Lick    <#
(re-issue/also   ^
distributed by MCA)
CS/CD
Shadowy Men
on a Shadowy Planet
July 24
Commodore Ballroom
Vancouver
ERICSTRIP SIX FINGER SATELLITE POND
9 to July 29
VICTORIA
July 28 Harpo's
VANCOUVER
July 29 Town Pump
T-CAN
TOUR
£9930 TABOO
TRIBAL WARE
NOW OPEN
10% of. with
$15 purchase
at BLAST §8™«
-fefofasSl
MASTER OF CEREMONIES
TOMMY CHONG
j^rcjhoDey
1&
BAD RELIGION
C
i
ili«
JEFFERSON
IS   T^STARSMIP
53!-.r-SL?.S.s.
meryn caflell
111 Roots Roundup
if boom'shaka
i
HOTLINE
(403)678 2768
45 MINUTES
FROM CALGARY
100 BANDS
2 STAGES
FREE CAMPSITES
RAVE TENT
ARTISAN FAIR
EXOTIC FOODS
CLIMBING WALL
TIX AVAILABLE AT:
Weubum  Buffalo B
Brandon Poor nkhaeb Book Sh
Wlnn^>ea SK8
Ottawa Cam's House of love
UNITED STATES
Spokane -
ana Hot Poop Records
los Angeles Goat Recoi
Bobe Tne Record Exchan
WWockrfcf-
1 SPIN
% TO SUBSCRIBE 1-800-829-9093 2412 MAIN ST.*872-2999
1102 AUSTIN AVE. • 931 -5070 C/O 6138 SUB blvd.
Vancouver B.C.
V6T 1Z1
AIRHEAD
THE SUN COMES UP...
Attn: Paul, Scooter, Discorder
in General, Airhead Ya Ya
Brooks
Hi Everybody,
I'm visiting Victoria, well I'm
stuck here. Fuck you! Well well,
Bum's putting out a CD, it sure is
swanky, and they got a preddy ' 45
out too. There's some band named
"Fudgicle" with chicks in it somewhere. Lots of people using that
"Alternative" word. Saw some
Military boys cruisin' in an Im-
pala Listenin'  to Nirvana. OH
GOD to have been a girl in a tube
top!! Some guy is mad at CFUV
& OFFBEAT 'cus they didn'l
treat him like a punk rock God
and he's mad!! Posterin' and
Flyerin' his crusade. Oh it's sad.
But I'm having fun. I'll mail you
lovely pictures of me on the beach
Love and Kisses
Kxcubus Manslaughter
To: The Discorder Posse
Paul T. Brooks, Mark, Norm,
Anthony, Jason.
Congratulation on the Nightlines'
World Tour Contest '93
As Nardwuar would say.
Rock on!'
Dodie
Mississauga, Ontario
THE TIDE ROLLS BACK
Dear Sirs:
Copies of your monthly p.-.per are
delivered to the above facility. We
would appreciate if you would arrange to have us taken off your
delivery schedule. We do not find
ihe publication suitable for our family and younger patrons.
Yours sincerely.
G. Derek Lavevty
Coordinator of Aiuatics
Vancouver Aquatic Cenlre
Vancouver Park Boa.d
c los
r PC
Does this n
"$20 is a small price to pay to offend as many people as you like,
isn't it. If il was up to me you would
not be broadcasting again, ever!"
Look out! The Kaptain must
be shaking in all his foolishness
after digesting that well-crafted,
witty, piece of humble pie. Kaptain
Kill (alias Baljeet Rai/Kapiton
Nero) let loose and stopped at nothing in debasing your institution, yet
the above is all you can say! There
is certainly no shame in being out-
dueled by the likes ofthe Kaptain.
but to roll over and die without even
trying - you are pathetic vermin!
The Kaptain's long overdue
return to his from the hip evolving
revolution of absurdity should be
a reminder of your shame. Step
aside Airhead, the Gangster is on
his way into town So if you have
blacklist I want to be on it.
Rev. Freddie The Gangstrr
Free Church ofthe Daydream
Delta
So what ■>
COOL'S ETERNAL BUT
ITS ALWAYS DATED
I'm writing in response to Andrew
McKay's review of The Cows concert at The Dugout. Mr. McKay
says "A big step (for the Cows)
would be opening for 35 people at
a club, instead of headlining a garage for 30." What the hell is so
great about playing clubs'7 The
whole purpose of clubs is to exploit music in order to sell alcohol.
What kind of enviroment is that
for a band to play in? Mr. Mckay' s
kind of attitude is what's killing
independent music. Clubs
shouldn't exist, they are just
leeches on the music scene. If the
philosophy that clubs are better
wasn't so prevalent maybe all the
all-ages venues wouldn't have to
be Rec. Centers or "garages". I
keep hearing people talk about a
new "Cruel Elephant'. fuck that,
how about a place where everybody can go to enjoy music for the
sake of music. Thank goodness
there' s bands like Sparkmarker out
there who ready support the scene
by only playing all-ages gigs
Wozzie
Burnaby. B.C.
YOU ARE NOT WHAT
YOU WRITE
Dear Airhead.
Re: Vancouver Special. "Desperately Seeking Satan".
Hey Kim. thanks for infornung me
of my need to "get a life", but
maybe you should lake a little of
your own advice: at least I have
enough of a life not to waste my
lime making up bullshit stories
about people I've never met.
Thanx.
P.S. Any Discorder readers who
want to make up their own minds
about HAVOC, write to:
HAVOC
PO Box 88547
!01-13753-72nd Avenue
Surrey. B.C.
V3W0X1
Send rne a couple of stamps and
I'll send you a copy.
He ■
Kim   &   All   Yoi
Discorder;
So what the fuck is it with all this
slagging of Lucifer* his HAVOC
zine? Criticizing the zine is one
thing, but personal attacks are petty
and cheap. Vancouver has few
enough contributions as it is! What,
are ya trying to make it worse?
Don't tell sc
Records & Stuff We Sell:
85. SLANT 6 3-Song r   ®
84. HOLY ROLLERS 2-Song7"   ®
83. SCREAM 'Fumble1 (Final Studio Session)t »
82. SCREAM 'Fumble' + 'Banging the Drum' ©
81. SCREAM 'Still Screaming'+ This Side Up' ©
79.  CIRCUS LUPUS Solid Brass1* ©
78. LUNGFISH      Rainbows from Atoms'-* I
77. JAWBOX 2-Song 7"    ®
76. SHUDDER TO THINK 2-Song r ®
75. HIGH-BACK CHAIRS ««|ffw ©
74. HIGH-BACK CHAIRS 2-Song 7" ®
73. CIRCUS LUPUS 2-Songr   ®
72.   SEVERIN        'Acid to Ashes + Rust to Dust' 1* ©
71. NATION OF ULYSSES p^p^ t* ©
70.   FUGAZI 'In On the Kill Taker'* ©
tAlso available as cassette *Available as CD, price code®
Price Guide, including postage, in U.S. $:
USA Canada Airmail
®    7"              3.00 4.00 6.00
©    12" EP       6.00 8.00 11.00
©    LP             7.00 9.00 12.00
©    CD           8.00 9.00 11.00
©    MaxiCD  10.00 11.00 13.00
Illustrated   CATALOG!
4 US sumps or 4 IRCs
3819 BEECHER ST. NW, WASH., D.C. 20007
6 __^£o£_Tlg_3 unless you know what kind of life
they lead. It's too easy. And I would
hope you're not that simple a person. Anyway, HAVOC's improving all the time (something you
don't seem to comment on) and, if
Lucifer decides to keep it up, should
someday reach the magnitude and
importance of, oh, let's say
Discorder. (Say, didn't you guys
get a total of 18 responses to your
last readers poll? Out of a disthbu-
uon of 20,000?)
Yours in Astounding Matu-
D.J Jansen
Port Coquitlam
P.S. Am I now your enemy?
When a person writes or, better
yel, starts their own 'zine they open
themselves up to a lot of personal
crilcism which can sometimes be
hurtful; not realizing this, when
pouring out your most
l of thoughts to x amount of
readers, would be a naive and audacious oversight. Discorderij
above vendettas and, therefore,
everything that is said in a revit
is intended to be valuable or co
structive criticism. Like a mu:
maker, whomever, a writer 'sfet
ings are hurt when a reader does
not interpret said writer _ work in
the way that it is intended. This is
a tough transition to make (writer
to reader) and when it is made that
writer will be given credit where
credit is due. Oh, by the way, Kim's
"Get a life" comment was in response to Lucifer's disgruntlement
over the fact that the Cruel Elephant had closed and he no longer
had a place to, I quote, "pick up
cool alternative babes." If that is
the mind from which, in your opin
ion, cool writing oozes from then
maybe you should just save yourself some time and start reading
Penthouse Letters. And, yes, we
did get 18 responses to our readers
poll but we didn't write everybody
who bitched aboul our output.
PS. Only ifyou want to be.
PRIDE NO LONGER HAS
DEFINITION
Dear Airhead.
First, it's nice to see that you 'intellectual university types" have
to resort to using the words like
"fuck" and "fucking" to reply to
my letter. Where did you grow up?
Whalley ? Tell me, what's it like to
driving a '74 Camero?
Second, while I currently live
in New York, Don't assume I'm
American. I'm more Canadian than
you'll ever be. (My collection of
Stompin Tom records will attest to
that).
Anyway. I know the V.S. has
problems, so does Canada, and so
does Discorder Magazine. If you
would've READ my original letter, you would've realized I was
offering a SOLUTION to your inability to deliver your magazine to
PAYING subscribers in a timely
fashion.
Perhaps this is why the U.S.
is in such bad shape, people with
IDEAS on how to IMPROVE
things are IGNORED by the people
who make the decisions I guess
in a way YOU AT DISCORDER
are just like the U.S. government.
Good feeling eh!
Paul Guzyk
New York, New York
Where the "fuck" is Whalley9
Whether you are American or Ca
nadian is inappurlenant (university word) lo this whole matter
You live in America and, therefore, you are part of the system
whose Presidents have supplieit
arms to third world countries instead of proper schooling and
medicine, baifon the dinner tables
of esteemed world leaders and in
fluence terrorism (remember the
Gulf). Guilt by association, I know,
but that is where Discorder il
different from the U.S. government
If we had that kind of money and
power don't you think lhat we
would at least be a glossy ?
STUPID FUCKING
WORDS
Dear Airhead,
As the B.C. Liberal leadership race
heats up the question arises: how
many Gordons is enough? Have
they forgotten the prime directive?
Why not Gordon Downie? Why
cant Kim Campbell be more like
Kim Gordon? What about the
Rowdyman? How about Gordon
Jump? What about a W*iergate
burglar? Tell me — is Uiis Vancouver or is it Gordonville'1
signed.
Limestone Jones In Fear
For His Life
Coquitlam. B.C.
Well, considering our album (Gordon ) has sold oo copies worldwide,
we can safely assume that there is
no such thing as enough Gordons.
The Barenaked Ladies
I think you have too much time on
your hands, my friend.
Gordon Gano
Violent Femmes
JULY   0 i*
<»___!_
Dimitry
from
Deeelite
Doc Martin
live knds
Gates 2pm Show 3pm
Tickets $19.25
All Ages
Free Parking - Free Camping
The Rhinos
Unorthodox
Bohemians
[_%_*_] \5^
there's
no mona
FEATURING.
WE'VE GOT YOU COVERED!
15 M|^^|»^m|» ^
*«Ov«s.o«*°
0/V^r.yiTO^
3^B_ '       ALL AGES WELCOME!
i^>/\0*" Basement, Student Union Building
HL/*      * University of British Columbia
m"iiS^^ul_.T«**«n=<^_f__!?^
,",M**« *-s\nssggr
l^sTB-i
•"iemHI*! iinii
^^^^^SHBSBHKil y
W
)
&
J. <
Life Among the Jerkoffs
/         1
have none.
&•***"
Understanding is a thoughtless
The beefy crunch of
kind of voyeurism.
fucking or fighting.
Do unto others as they
All you know, and you
would...
should be shot for it.
Well, yes. a good enough
My sympathy for you
reason for murder.
is stunningly vacant.
Pity is the kind of shit
c.   Isabella Legosi Mori
nobody wants, and I
6. 27. 92.
My Objective: A Politician making himself Under.
By Sarah Haxby
My entire objective is to make myself plain to you.
Is that clear?
I wish to be crystal clear, translucent.
Blunt if I must.
I must tell you I will make n
of
e of simile
analogy
hyperbole
my very simple
meaning allusion
I wish to have my thoughts It will
laid bare of be as if
pretext or deception I did not
1 wish to have my ideas free know these
of misconception things.
The misinterpretation
or misconstruing of the original Pure Notion
Will not be allowed.
I wish to be understood.
To the point.
CONCISE I want no interpretation of an idea that
should be self-evident and unobtrusively obvious.
I will not be colorful, mislead you
deceive you
I will be painfully        hand you chicanery
honest.
I will be to Ihe point and so straight forward that I will
! be explained in my every spoken and written word.
Do you understand? I am being honest with you.
There will be no sarcasm
punning
Every look upon my face w
confusing.
And I want to be underslixxl.
My manner will lack all creative devi
No nuance of personality will be proc
Or taken the wrong way
When I wanl everyone to understand whai
conceal a single emotion.
*m.m x     nmm X
i
o
m
/WHAT A    ^H
(   GORGEOUS^^^^
\ oqyf     >/
Q
( ' r7^*?*!
^fflySNAMty
CO
/jA/Xcd^f
I
ih__
'_
cc
Im
______
^g(jl   >—*^ f^p-^L' ^^    1      j
X
^5/
TV           f/^^-—^   /
Uj SECRETS   ENTRUSTED
TO A FEW
S
u
B
T
E
X
T
BY JUDITH BEEMAN
Mssr' s Peter Bagge and Daniel Clowes
(hold me back.. .such cuteness!) to tlie
Comicshop, as well as more great
weather and vacation time, can I seriously expect you to curl up with a
book? Oh well, it's summer, you're
forgi ven. Just remember to wear loads
of sunscreen! And happy reading to
those so inclined!
A Circle of Birds (Anvil Press,
$9.95)
IJke a Velvet Glove Cast in Iron
(Fantagraplucs, $17.95)
I decided to review tliese books together as they both feature "lost boys"
as main characters, are abundantly
surreal and are truly marvelous reads.
Last Labour Day weekend Hayden
Trenholm wrote A Circle of Birds
within 72 hours, tlie traditional tune
span for writers participating in tlie 3-
Day Novel-Writing contest. Trenholm,
a playwright, tells tlie story cf a man
suffering from "aminesis," a faux
Greek word which means Ite death of
memory. Living in a liospilal, armed
widianotebooktorecordl_sinciikjnes,
David (an alias) reads his daily re[xxts
with dread, unable to recall what lie
remembered mere liours ago.
Ihe novel begins: "Hach morning there is a scaly sheath of memory
A Circle
those of Bill who is equally—okay, even more as-
fascinating as David. Perhaps he is David's fatlier,
although this isn't explained
lt really doesn't mailer, tlie
story flows amazingly well.
To reveal more would rob
you of a great read: expect
treachery, passion, death, an
evilpersonandsomehumor.
As for evil, you can
find it in abundance in
Daniel Clowes' Uke a Velvet Glove Cast in Iron. Tlie
story, collected here, was
originally seen in Clowes'
comic, Eightball. wluch is
published tlirice yearly by
Seattle's superkeen Fanta-
grapliies. Clay Louderinilk's
pilgrimage to discover tlie
maker of aporn flick and liis
resulting scrape with
humanity last for 134 spine-
lingling pages in tins graphic novel.
Clay is doe-eyed deadpan an
spooked; although Ihe plot doesn
(.enter on his story alone, he's oi
guide to Ihe action. Images of seen
organizations and conspiracy
abound—diere's even a religious cul
There are many mysteries and nine
decadent behavior in ...Glove.
If you want mure info, about tlie
Day writing contest contact Anvil
ess at#L5- 2414 Main Street, Vancouver, VST 3E3, or call Brian at 876-
8710. Anvil also publishes sub-Terrain magazine which is simply greal.
Cosmic Retribution (Fantagrapliics/
Feral House, pb $27.95)
How do I begin lo describe Joe
Coleman? 1 le's best known as the
guy in tlie mondo New York film who
bites the Ik-ads off those mice (mommy
daddy mouse ...chomp). He'sa
lying on my bett, sloughed away during die night. It lies there, glittering in
tlie moming sun. I try to touch it but it
crumblestodustbeneatliniyfingers.lt
is all slipping away."
Tliroughout tlie story fragments
of David's liistory appear as well as
Manson. A note of encouragement by
Robert Crumb is followed by an
excellent interview with Coleman by
co-editor Adam Parfrey.
The pieces range from single
panel "comics" describing the lifesto-
ries of Carl Panzram, Jack Black and
Box Car Bertha, to glorious (in a
manner of speaking) full color paintings depicting Coleman and the world
as he sees it. The horror of Coleman's
subjects are best caught in the color
pieces where virtually everyone is deformed or maimed in some way.
Oozing sores and deformities are the
norm, depravity die expected behavior.
Tlie detail is astounding, however dubious Ihe subject matter, this guy can
I've waited a long time for this
book. Coleman ls an important artist
and diis Ls an excellent catalogue of his
work. However, the sadness and anger
which permeates die pages keeps rae
from enjoying die book.
Compendium COMIX Anthology
(Mangajin, $19.00)
Inspiring! This collection of comics
includes some big names (Doucet,
Moiseiwitsch, Matt, Kuper) yet die
i<x>l re
.n posing as a
on lire (miss lhat slory
lediiiRE/Search'.s/YfmAiv)
a prolific
<l guy
paint the most depressing subject
The cover of Cosmic Retribution gives die first clue that somediing
nught be up: Tlie words of a reviewer
"Praise! Praise! He's a caveman in a
space sliip" are front and centre. Tlie
critic is none other dian Charles
lesser known artists. Frankly, some of
the work is amateurish tosay tlie least:
Ich Neuman, who edited this project,
wanted to give tlie self-publishing
crowd a larger audience. Tliis stuff
may be rough or have an uneven
.storyline (if one at all!) but it's got, uh,
heart. At 2X2 pages, the txxik profiles
dozens of artists. Tlie publisher is
seeking submissions of "cliallenging
wort Is and images" for Sensoria From
Ceraorium, an international andiology
of alternative culture. Write Box 147,
Sm I, Toronto, Ontario, M4J 4X8.
Incredibly Strange Music, Volume 1
(Re/Search, $17.99)
Tlie RE/Search team of Andrea and
Vale do it again, llus long awaited
hock, lends its attention to music and
muzak from around the world. Some
of die subjects (Martin Denny, king of
"exotic" sou ndsfromarounddie world,
and Eartha Kitt. a hell cal, yes. bul
incredibly strange?) are unexpected
but, as with every RE/Search fxxik, il
all gels together.
Tlie diapters are geared toward
musical discussions rather than profiles on artists. Celehs like Lux and Ivy
of die Cramps, Billy and Miriam of
Norton Records and die owners of
Amok Books chat about rare neglected
music. Dozens of record jackets are
reprixluced and, as with nxist RE/
Search books,diereisalistof quotations
and anecdotes at die end.
While Incredibly Strange
Music is a swell addition to the
RE/Search family, I'd suggest
the excellent Pranks or the
Industrial Culture Handbook to
anyone just discovering these
books. You'll soon be hooked
and have the whole set anyway!
Lovely In Her Bones (Pulp,
$1295)
Saltwater Trees (Pulp, $ 11.95}
Yi-yi-yi, this writing is powerful.
Alberta     writer     J.     Jill
Robinson's two short-story
collections are bound to impress
and/or bum you out big-tinx:. Jill
speaks of the pain that many
relationships bring: realizing a
friendship wasn't valued by a
"pal"; being, in plain english,
fucked aroundby boyfriends;par-
ents who put up a fortress around    fs"
their own pain and in turn cause the
cycle to continue. Although many of   diere'j
these tales are grim Jill has a subde    splendid/icky cover by die n
humor which eases  things  (on    Summer issue of Your Flesh 'zine(ved-
occasion). dy liard to find. I got mine at Track
Many ofthe these stories revolve    records). As for Bagge, die iixkI recent
around booze; no preaclung (tlianks,    ish of The Comics Journal has Pee-Boy
Jill!) but diese people clearly aren't    on die cover widi a tell all interview
having muchfiin. "Let's Face It," from    within.
herfirst collection, SaltwaterTrees, is
perhaps the saddest story I've ever ThenextComicon(Sunday,July
read.IdoubtRobinsondunksofherself 18th, 3102 Main C«> tlie Heritage Hall)
asa crusader, yet diese books liave a will liave Dave Sim, creator of Cerebus,
firm, realistic grasp on the "dysfunc- andDianaSchutzofDarkllorseComics
tional"side of things which may be an as special guests. No doubt Diana will be
inspiration to son«. Lovely In Her displaying the new, cheap, $1.25
Bones was a Spring release from "superhero" titles just coming out from
Arsenal Pulp diis year. the great DH. (Home of Concrete, don't
forge.)
COMIX-OH BOY! At the last Comicon I was given a
review copy of Strange Attractors #1,
Indeed, Clowes and Bagge will be produced by two Bclliiigliam writers,
at die Comicshop on 4th Ave., mid- Thecovci seemed dubious, a woman in
month (search out the date). If you    a swimsuit outfit swinging from a pully,
widiatmly
yet I was pleasantly surprised to find a
futuristic love/adventure tale within.
The amazing resemblance of Sophie,
the protaganist, to cartoonist Mary
Fleener was hilarious. Coincidence?
Fleener does the wonderful Slutburger
(Drawn & Quarterly). #4 out soon!
'ZINE OF THE MONTH
i Retrospect If36 found me
andl'iiihooked. Simple: one dollar, 24
pages, small si ze, many topics—books,
music, film, 'zines...wotta find. An
interview with tough guy crime writer
James Ellroy was die centrepoint for
dus ish. Write Dan Taylor today: PO
Box 1155, Haddonfield, NJ 08033-
0708. A mere buck.
Before I go, congraLs lo Sliane, he
of teeny booklets, whoreceivedaglow-
ing review in Seattle's/todtef—written
widi more eloquence than myself or
odier local writers could muster (when
bribed with Sponge some mondis ago).
I am humbled (and never did have a
banana seal bike, sniff).
People Are Reading
Ever wonder what "People Arc Reading"? I do. cub's Lisu, Robynn and Valeria, whose cuddlecore
sounds have taken the nation by storm, took the time to write and tell subtext their essential tout-
readings. Unfortunately, Neko, their tour drummer, could not be reached for comment but the band
is quite certain that she had her nose in these books as well.
all day, every day, for marly a month? Sleep, make pape
:k on Jolly Ranchers (watermelon rules!), sleep, debate wh
Island, sleep, drink Mr. Pibb, think aboul peeing, argue o\
>ul die window, sleep and, um, oh yeah, read. Here's what
Lisa:
So whal do you do when you're stuck in ,
out of Cosmo and Bazaar, play aulobnisio
die best person to have sex wilh on Cilhg;
road atlas, try nol to think aboul peeing, slare oul die window, sleep and, u
The Happy Hookerby Xaviera Hollander. Well, you know.
The Stiffest ofthe Corpse: An Exquisite Corpse Reader edited by Andrei ( \x
poetry and nasty gossip from the likes of John Cage, Anne Waldman, Paul
many more. Includes an interview wilh Xaviera Hollander!
Margaret Trudeau: The Prime Minister's Runaway Wife by Felicity (
rect gushy trash biography—excellent! 8 pages of "candid" photos!
Compares Maggie to Xaviera Hollander (no lie!!)!
There _ A Trick With A Knife I'm beaming To Do: collected poems by Mi
aboul you-know-who but sexy, sexy stuff all the same.
Robynn:
Well, I only got through 27 pages of The Happy I looker mm\ I wo ami a half cl
traps and pee stops tend to interrupt one's reading How. Howe
forgot to bring on the road    The Doctors' Book of Home Rem,
ang, yet true, "tips and techniques anyone can use to heal
iples: to cure motion sickness cal two olives; for black eyes
up like a balloon. Very handy. Now I am never al a loss for
ur long. Now available in paperback.
Valeria:
vas nol on tour, being engaged in die writing of my wartime memoirs, liach evening I read what I'd written
die morning and found it riveting, insightful, unexpectedly funny, and wrenching. Olher reading matter for
die last six weeks wa.s largely ingested to avoid practicing by niyscll while Lisa and Robynn overlurcd,curtaine<
ights, this is it Ihe height of heights, and, oh, whal heights Ihey hit! On with the list, this is it: Colette's
collected short stories, five or six of Ruth Praner Jhabvala's novels, five or six assorted magazines such as Spy,
Q, The New Yorker, The Economist (for die laffs!) and People (lo find oul all one needs to know aboul Ted Sc
Whoopi). Then I finished up widi a nice mixture of Edith Wharton and Isobel Colegale. I like lo read authors-
works in a bunch, like broccoli. Oh yes, and every year I re-read Ada, Vladamir Nabokov's best book. In fact,
onstantly re-reading because I've already read everydiing Now I'm reduced lo readinglhings I read years
ago merely to measure how much my viewpoint has changed. I also re-read The Skinnier Ijeg ofthe Journey,
'hich I read for the first lime about two mondis ago. I tliink I need to read it again next week!
irane. P<x>rly written, faclu;
s of dirt on the Rolling Stoi
Bl Ondaalje. Absolutely nothing
:i half chapters ol Margaret Trudeau;\o\
one book dial I've read covcr-lo-cover bul
v    provided me widi a whole multitude of
yday health problems." Here's a couple i
i'I blow your nose or your whole face could
on starters. Ami I was healthy
,apps
© Nardwuar: Who are you ?
My name ts John Ginoli and I was born in Peona, Illinois in 1959.1 grew up in the central part of Illinois which was
pretty Republican. I lived in Champagne, Illinois until 1988. Champagne is a college town which is an oasis among
the cornfields. Actually, I like the Midwest. I don't have any bad things to say about it. Except Indiana is perhaps
the very worst slate in the whole country; there is absolutely nothing in Indiana worth mentioning Indiana's in Ihe
Midwest so I should maybe take back what I said.
I didn't really mind where I came from. I left Illinois because I wanted to do musical work. I actually work
lor a record distributor here, which I couldn't do back there, and there are a lot more guys out here! Anyway, then
I moved to Los Angeles Thankfully, I escaped from there to San Francisco in 1989.1 have been here ever since.
And you're the lead guitar player in Pansy Division!
Yes, and I also write most of the songs and sing them.
Who else is in Pansy Division?
Chns Freeman who is from Seattle originally
From Aberdeen!
He lived all over Washington state: Coolie Dam, Aberdeen, Centralia, I think. He plays bass and sings. Our
drummer is David Ward. He grew up about forty miles east of San Francisco in a place called Danville out in the
'burbs.
When did Pansy Division form?
The end of 1991.
Whit is the average age of the band?
About thirty.
Are Pansy Division the first pro-sex, pro-safe-sex, all-queer punk rock V roll band ever?
As tar as I know, at least as lar as it goes for men. There are other bands that might fit in that category who are
women, like Tribe 8 who seem to have come along at the same time that we have
I've always liked music that isn't usualy associated with
being queer.
As I said earlier, Pansy Division are blazing a new
trail the likes of which the rock world has never seen
before...
That could very well be true.
...especially in rhymes! The rhymes in your songs are
amazing: "known" and "blown," "pick-up truck" and
"boy fuck," "thick" and "dick," "kicks" and "dick,"
"stick" and "lick," "locks" and "cock," "socks" and
"cocks," "nuts" and "butts." And my favourite rhyme
of all: "tuxedo" and "pink torpedo."
Well, it looks like you've been reading our lyric sheets
very closely!
Never before have those rhymed so nicely in rock.
Well, I have to tell you that the last one, "tuxedo" and "pink
torpedo," was stolen Irom Spinal Tap. That's a Spinal Tap
song that we do. I guess bands with great rhymes inspire
out now. K Records used to sell that through mail order.
The people who do the Kill Rock Stars label are also
based in Olympia and they heard our cassette there.
They called us up and said they really loved our band
and would we like us to be on this compilation. They
asked us if we would contnbute a song and we did.
What was the response to the first Pansy Division
cassette? I guess no Judy Garland fans bought it.
The big surpnse to me was how many people who were
into Judy Garland liked it. I thought the band, pnmanly,
would be something that people who were younger and
gay would be interested in.
I'm thirty-three and I came out in Champaign,
Illinois dunng the '80s. So, even though I came out
dunng the big disco thing in the late 70s and '80s, I was
shielded from all that. There was a generational thing:
the post-disco gays and the disco-penod gays. The
disco-era gays tend to be into Judy Garland and tend to
be a little bit older than. A lot ol the people from that
period who I thought would really hate Pansy Division
have really got into it, so it was a nice surprise.
How did that first cassette sell? Thousands of cop-
Have you thought up any knew rhymes, recently, i ies? Hundreds of copies?
since Undressed? j A couple hundred copies, mostly around San Francisco.
I can't think of anything offhand that quite lights up the | What I tned to do was tap into the queer 'zine network
sky like those you've just provided but I'm sure that if I did .that sprung up in the past couple years. Actually, it
a little tut of research I'll find some more. You'll just have ' started in Canada, really, with the JDs and that crowd of
to wait for the next record. people in Toronto There are a lot ol queer erotic 'zines
Hew Mutic Express reviewed your record and gave
Pansy Division a rating of 100!
I was really pleased. The reason that happened was
because I sent a CD of the album to a specific wnter who
actually did end up writing a review. His nameis Stephen
Wells who, even though he is straight, often challenges
bands in interviews about their homophobia. He did this
amazing interview with the Happy Mondays about a
year ago in which they were just spewing all sorts of
homophobic BS. Hejust printed it and said, "You people
are full of it!' A lot of the time I think journalists just let
this kind of stuff slide by. Stephen Wells, though, really
attacks people and shows them for what they are. So I
thought he would be a good person to address the CD
too, and it turned out good for us.
Actually, the guy who runs our label went to
England when the review came out. All the indie shops
in London had our record and a week later, when the
review came out, almost none of them did. They were all
sold out. That made me feel good.
It's is interesting how people react to the cover of
your record. Who is that on the sleeve?
My fnend Alex. We sometimes use go-go dancers, he's
one of them.
He's lying naked in a field of pansies.
Yes.
My friend's mom said, "Where did you get that
S     Ir-if^O ©___©-&
@_BV
Lk-$- if 3}®_|_s]l'_, ,^®irJlB®_ii,te®iradl©B Th®
^ ©(ID   ___© H0D^_a_W'li> @@lr--®CD0_.® DDTj
' ®mm$ ftwIlHRira '"if
[fa W@ Jf{M£®   (<"
*-**_ %&
So are Tribe 8 a sort of female equivalent to Pansy Division?
Ha ha. No, they're fairly different, actually. They're fnends of ours. We're mutually supportive.
Who is the anti-Pansy Division?
I've had several gay men tell me that we are the anti-Romanofski and Phillips. Do you know who they are7
They are kind of a goofy, lightweight, gay folk-rock duo. We've described as that. They've been around and have
put out some records. I don't really know their stuff too well.
Was there anybody before you who sort of hinted at the stuff that you're doing now in rock _' roll? I mean,
it's really neat that you're going in water that has never been tread before? Was there anybody who laid
the groundwork for Pansy Division?
Yes, but there have been people (Lou Reed especially) who have done things that were gender bending and of
a musical relevance too. It seems like a lot of the people who laid the groundwork for us were dabbling. Either they
weren't gay, they were afraid to say they were gay, or they were making a pose so that they could get people
excited and turned on and inflamed.
So my doing this band, starting this band, is, to a large degree, due to the fact that everybody else who has
come before us has pulled back at some level and refused to come out or said, "Oh, I'm really bi" or "That was
just a phase." I am not in a phase; I've been like this as far as I can remember. It's just singing about what comes
naturally to me whereas other people sing about what comes naturally to them.
Did the Village People ever say they were gay?
Sure. There have been other gays in music, Jimmy Somerville and people like Sylvester and the Village People,
but they pnmanly play dance or disco stuff which doesn't interest me very much. It never really did. I used to be
pretty antagonistic towards it but now I've kind of mellowed out and feel that if people want to listen to that then
that's fine.
The thing that would bother me is that because I am gay it was always assumed by other gay people that
I had to like that stuff. Well, I'm sorry but I don't. So I just wanted to make this space lor myself, musically, because
12 nz&s&umg*
that do erotic stories and stuff, and ones that wnte
So what is wrong with Judy Garland anyway? After articles and review things, so I sent every magazine that
all, she's dead! I could a copy of the cassette hoping that we would get
That is actually one of the problems: the fact that Judy some reviews or some people to like us. The word of
Gartand is omnipresent. She is dead, true. I don't have mouth started happening....
anything against Judy Garland per se except that she
has been rammed down my throat ever since I came oi
Why?
Because she is a gay figurehead. The Stonewall Rebellion in 1969 happened nght around the time that Judy
Garland died. She was a figurehead, role model, for
gays of that era but that era was so long ago that her
relevance to me has really diminished. To me she
represents the kind of gay scene that was very closeted,
very sad, and very tragic. I'm well adjusted and positive
about life and I don't feel any connection to that old sort
of tragic gay existence. Times have improved. Things
have moved on.
And Judy Garland references abound everywhere. See a gay movie. Read a gay magazine. Judy
Garland is everywhere. Get over it. Judy Garland is
ancient history.
I first heard Pansy Division on the Stars Kill Rock
compilation on which you guys contributed the incredible song "Bunnies." How did you get involved
in that project?
Before we had an album out we had a cassette which
had some of the songs that are on the album/CD that is
record? That's pornography!" Did you have any
trouble getting the record printed?
As a matter of fact, yes. We had every format done in
a different place. The people who did the CD had
no problem with it but the people who did the album, somewhere in Alabama, were freaked out.
They don't like seeing cocks?
Yes and it's a soft cock. There's no sexual activity
going on in the picture, it's just a picture of a naked
guy lying in a field of flowers. That's it. And they said
it was obscene. That's Alabama for you.
And you have to turn the record over in order to
see the soft cock!
I know. So if you're looking at a CD in the store you
can't see it anyway; you can't see it on the cassette.
But, of course, you can see it on the album cover. I
have a great story about that.
For some reason our record is selling well in
Japan—there's been a lot of interest for Pansy Division over there— but Japan is even sicker than
America in terms of uptight sexuality. Three times,
exporters that I know have sent the record into
Japan and customs have refused to let it into the
country. They say that they will either ship it back to
you at your expense or they will destroy the copies,
so they destroyed the copies. To get around this
someone else I know has taken white-out to all of the
offending parts on the album cover on the shnnk
wrap. And on the CD booklets, which you can't see
from the outside of the CD cover, they've opened the
CDs and whited out the willie in order to get it into
Japan. This istheoame country that gave us Rapeman
comics. What bullshit.
How did you end up on Lookout Records? Don't you
work for Dutch East India Trading Company ?
That's true, I work for Dutch East but their offices are in
New York. I'm a west coast rep. The people who work at
Dutch East didn't like us that much to put us out. I'm kind
of glad they didn't at this point. Lookout is based in the
Bay Area and I like the idea of having our label here to
call up and meet with all the time.
Were they afraid of you?
I think the guy who made the decisions just didn't like us
well enough. When you're an independent label signing
bands you have to be excited about the bands you're
putting out because there really isn't a lot of reward in
many ways. The reason why we signed with Lookout
was because they were very generous with royalties—
they're a low-budget label. They don't add on a lot of
expenses to deduct from royalties; they're pretty much
basic. They put it out and it is going to eilher sink or swim
by itself. They aren't going to spend a lot of money
promoting it. They do the basics and then "You're on
your own, kid." One thing I like about them is that they
still put out 45s and vinyl LPs. Some of the other labels
we were talking to eilher put out CDs and cassettes or
just CDs. I'm a vinyl person myself, still. I have a CD
player, but records are cheaper. I still buy records.
Year Bitch, Tribe 8, Bikini Kill and the Lucy Stoners.
You mentioned that, there was a bit of a problem
with the little bit of cock on the cover to Undressed, but on "Bill and Ted's Homosexual Adventure," the cover is, let me say, a bit more racy.
Yes, you see them actually having a homosexual
adventure on the cover. We rather like that picture.
Now, was there any trouble getting that printed?
That one wasn't done at a pnnter, it was done on a
high quality Xerox™machine. It was done by a friend
having access to that machine. So it didn't have to go
through the same process as our album.
What's going on on the back of the single?
That's actually a picture taken at Gilman Street when
we played there. Some of our dancers were with us
that night. One of the guys from the audience was
reaching up to touch the butt of one of our dancers,
who was wearing a jock strap at the moment, and the
other dancer is trying to wave his hand away. It's a
pretty funny picture because the person touching the
butt was a famous Bay Area personality: Marshall
Stax, a radio show host for KALX.
Has K. Cobain heard your
Queer Spirit"?
I know he has by now. One of the stores that I talk to
Your shows are pretty wild then! You have go-go
of "Smells Like     dancers?
Sometimes. We play a lot and the go-go dancers are
saved for the big shows or times when we have a big
Like in Japan ?
Yeah. And there's also the matter of the work permit
thing.
Just Lie!
There's a certain way to lie. I realize you just can't lie,
you have to have it organized. So I think the next time
we go up and play Seattle we'll try to get up to
just have to use your imagination, and a song called
"Groovy Underwear," which explores Ihe many types.
Thafs a few tidbits of what's coming up.
Any songs about leather, lace or macrame?
No. Macrame is not exactly a sexy topic in my house
There is a song that Chns. our bass player, wrote
called "James Bondage," which might excite the leather
w
They let Guns „' Roses tour Japan but they
won't let Pansy Division records in.
It's a sexist society.
Have you had any airplay problems? What songs
are DJs afraid of?
"Bunnies," "Anthem," and "Cocksucker Club." A couple people from radio stations in the United States
have sent me cassettes of when they played us on
the air and bleeped out the offending words, which is
fine with me. I wasn't about to go and censor the
songs myself but if people want to cover up certain
words and beep them or just have a space there
that's fine with me. Whatever it takes to get the song
on the air locally. I think the songs that are being
played the most are "Hippie Dude," "Fern in a Black
Leather Jacket" and "Versatile." I think those are the
three that are suitable for airplay in America.
Who is playing your record?
The radio station that plays us a lot is a station in Los
Angeles called KXLU. A friend told me that somebody played "Bunnies" and then the DJ came on the
air and said, "Oops, I guess we won't be heanng that
song again." So, we get some airplay but ifs one of
those silly American things.
Was "Smells Like Queer Spirit" yourfirst record?
Yeah, it came out in November of1992.
tie; in March we did an in-store appearance at Fallout. I
called them up recently and somebody said, "John, you
won't believe who came in and bought your record Ihe
other night. Courtney Love. She came in and bought the
"...Queer Spirit" single and your album." So Kurt and
Courtney have got a copy now. I guess I'll be hearing
from them if they're offended, but I'd be surprised.
Have the Spinal Tappers heard "Big Bottom"?
I did send a copy to Harry Shearer, who does a radio
show on KCRW in Santa Monica, he is one of the
members of Spinal Tap, When I lived in Los Angeles I
used to listen to his show, so I sent him a copy of the "Big
Bottom" 45. Maybe he'll like it.
Speaking of singles, your most recent single is "Bill
and Ted's Homosexual Adventure." It's just excellent. Pure party rock'n' roll! It's on OutPunk Records.
What is OutPunk?
OutPunk is a label run by this young guy in San Francisco who is a young, out punk. He just put out Tribe 8,
the dyke-punk band from San Francisco. It is a 6-song
EP, I think, on vinyl, cassette and CD too. He put out a
record by a straight band called Screeching Weasel who
have a song called "I Wanna Be a Homosexual."
They're also on Lookout.
That's right.  Matt's also put out a 4-song 7"
compilation called There's a Dyke in Ihe Pil It has 7
a small stage in a small club.
Do you plan to make it up to Vancouver?
I have to figure out how to get into Canada without
any problems because we can't really bring our
records with us. I'm afraid they will be confiscated at
the border because of that little piece of skin on the
We're here tote* you
a better make wa
We're rjuaer rockers in your lace today
Il's a now generation
We're me duitfuctrcrs
ol rock & roll
we vranne sac* it to
our hole
With loud guitar*, we
e gay and proud
We gonna get va mv
Thoy wort risk tneir
your panis down
We have no such c*
We make*Clear we
We're t'ie buttfuckers
ot rock S roll
.•<!. w,   a., .jock I to you' fox
We (tort care It your
Jusl use your tmithol
, everyone s gol ern
W_<_>l6v-r.ck_ro
Bul that-oy-meels-g
ri stull |USt won t do
We got our condoms
yot our lube
We know how to use
We're gonna geictid
xi yoi* back
Vancouver as well.
Who was the first Canadian you ever met?
A guy named Jim Allison from Toronto who is from a
| band called Fuel and had a single out on Lookout a few
I   years ago. We both used to work at Rough Trade in
San Francisco and I used to talk to him about Canada,
the land of sensible healthcare.
You've got the Undressed LP and two singles,
"Smells like Queer Spirit" plus Bill and Ted's Homosexual Adventure, what could possibly be next
for Pansy Division?
We've recorded our next single which will be out on
Lookout in August. It's got three songs, one of which is
an original called "Touch my Joe Camel," about phallic
cigarette advertisements and the effect on the psyche
of one person. The other two songs on there are a
version of Pete Shelley's "Homosapien", done in the
style of the Buzzcocks, and a remake of a Roxy Music
song called "Trash." After that we'll have another single out on Lookout in November or December, and the
new album which is already wntten, not recorded, will
be out early next year.
Can you please, please, give us a hint of some of
the songs that will be on the new album?
Okay, lets see. There's a song about a guy with a organ
of certain size called "Beer Can Boy"; a song about
living in Wer.t Hollywood called, "Fluffy City"; a song
called "Rock Bottom-Off" which I won't desenbe, you'll
Anything else you'd like to say to Canada, John of
Pansy Division?
Yes. Always use a Condom. We sing about sex a lot,
but there are consequences. It's not just this "wham-
bam-thank you, sir," kind of thing. We do feel responsible. If we're gonna sing about sex we should sing
about it in a way that doesn't lead to repercussions.
You can read about how to use a condom on the inside
of our album cover. We thought it would be the kind of
information that, at least in this country, our government is loathe to give.
Thanks very much and keep on rawkin' in the free
world!
Hey, thank you so much and we'll see you later this
year, I hope. ATTITUDE
NON-STOP ALTERNATIVE HORMONES.
MUSIC BY CITR...LIKE YOU CARE
UVEBANDSEVERY
THURSDAY NIGHT!
ADMISSION IS FREEH
JULY  1-HAPPY
CANADA DAYI
JULY S
JULY  IO
JULY _22t
JUNE 2*4
BANDS START© 9:30
Entire DISCHORD
catalogue e>&\e at
Scratch Kecorde>
until July 31st
all DISCHORD titles from
Shudder to Think   Fugazi
Jawbox   Nation of Ulysses
Holly Rollers   5cream Lungfish
Severin Gray Matter
Circus Lupu5Beefeater ^"~*
High Back Chairs Soulside
Embrace
Ritas of Spring       Minor Threat
and mora ...
■litter ta    Sf"'
on sale this month at
THE PIT PUB • IN THE BASIMENTOF THE STUDENT UNION BUllDING, 6138 SUB BLVD. • 604-822-6511 When il came lime to label ihe album,
the list of possibilities, we felt, werebast-
edbf leading people down a fairly serious
path of interpretation. A title such as Di -
viae Horsemen or The R»pe of Utneko
was obviously going lo colour tke way
people heard Ae CD. In the context cf
Sloody TourtJt we hoped lhat some ofthe
humour mat went into making the disc
would be morcch'ious lo the listener. Al
the same time, il had enough m it for
people -who enjoy a irek across "die tundra afmeaning" lafindjustificaiions. For
example,!!goes:some'way lo "explain"—
albeit in a fairty heavy handed way-
some ofthe right angle turns in ihe music
(eg. the mowing down of monks with hard
rod, Fourth world moods getting interrupted by nileclub funk etc. etc.) in Ae
context of a fairly simplistic view tf tourism, culture and development But at die
same time it is also quile disposable asm
off-hand insult We were also impressed
bed a strong bearing on the Extreme a!bum.
On which radio station do Frank awl yon
hast world music shews?
We've both presented weekly ptogtsatsos
Melbourne's 3PBS FM for the last three
years. Time commitments have recently cut
these back to irregular specials on indigenous and industrial musics.
Do vub fiad thai Ikieacrs are taking a
greater interest in the music of other
cal tares?
Propledosttra to be taking a greater interest in ethnic music. For the niainslieaf-
audience this is largely ihrough the efforts
of such artists as Gabriel. Byrne, Simon and
Hart. It's difficult, however, to say how
Stany use these artists' efforts as a spring-
how many just lap their feet to "You Can
Call Me Al." If nothJng;eke, I guess, it al!
tify ima*. {Eskimo) katajat songs. More
wpffymgly.nwst of the contestants thought
it was actually Awttab'aa aboriginal.
Were SPK anti the Severed Heads re-
ally as inU-talM as people claimed they
were? Whatever happened ts Boxcar?
Both bands are probably held ia high esteem because they were the first Australian artists to gain some form of kudos
overseas. Tlus hasn't stopped either from
putting ©jfi a fair amount of uninspired
material io my opinion. That aside, they
both have a solid following in Australia
still. Far be it fcons us to give currency to
rumours but, supposedly, last year die iwo
main individuals in Boxcar had a falling
«if%hcitiei this accounts foi then low-
profile and lack of output remains to be
Do you think Ihe majority of Austral
l_M honestly miss David la* Kolh?
nnnrrimrTT
with the title 'sambiguity—which
ihing Richard Grant picked up on in ihe
artwork. The cover can either be an exasperated native muttering the phrase, or
ihe image cm be a wounded traveller,
himself Ihe subject ofthe liile.
■ Damn Vethaeghen of Australia _C:;
Shinjuku Thief discussing the title oftheir
debut release, Bloody Tourist.
Discorder: What _ the Shinjuku Thief
objective?
Darrin Verhaeghen: Shinjuku Thief is, I
cssentially.a project-based ensemble bringing together different ideas (and, where
necessary, musicians) on each new work.
There are no over-riding objectives which
influence or constrain our direction. We
basically work in areas which interest us
al the time. Bloody Tourist, for example,
was an exploration of ethnic fusion; 77ie
Scribbler, our new album, is a more or-
chesiral/iiulustrial rendering of Kafka's
77if Trial. Works in progress include a
hard-core industrial album and a golhic
opera.
Who are some of your conkmporarks
that you admire?
Within each of the above styles:
ethnic fusion) Jon Hassell, Richard
Horowitz, Paul Schutze
orchestral/industrial) Wim Merlens,
Avro Pari, Michael Nynian
hard-core industrial) Skinny Puppy,
Kondo Ima. Foetus, Einsturzende
Neubauten
gothic opera) Diainanda Galas, Dead
Can Dance, SPK
What Australian bands serve as inspirations for your work?
Whilst there are a number of Australian
bands we enjoy listening to (Peril, Foil,
SPK, Snog, Dead Can Dance, Soulscraper,
etc.) the only artist we can probably cite
as directly influential (particularly on
Bloody Tourist) is Paul Schulze. We'd all
been impressed with his work for some
time and his approaches to composition,
construction and, in particular, detailing
hille bil more. For
those concerned with
the fringes of music, tlie
increased interest has been
fuelled, to a large extent, by a new ease of
■Beets to material. Long deleted vinyl front
ifuie Unesco, Ocora and Lyncoid libraries
are being reissued on CD and teaching a
whole new market. Yon even have the silu-
Potygraru releases the Mysterious Voices
than it was ten or twenty years ago when
access was more limited.
Do the A ust ral ia n A horiginca cantiaac ta
present their traditional musics?
It is ironic dial, only up until recently, die
only aboriginal recordings you could find
on CD had to be i mptttedfiom either Fiance,
Germany oi America. There was very link
interest shown in Australia. This is starling
to improve and bus and pieces of traditional
music are filtering dirough. Essentially, il is
slill only digeridoo and a small amount of
solo chant. There is a huge amount of male-
rial lhal jusl never sees the light of day (for
the Caucasians anyway). The aborigines
themselves seem to have experienced similar problems to many indigenous groups
around the world: Ihe youth are less interested in tradition and the preservation of
their own culture, and are either lured by the
appeal of the Western twentieth century or,
more unfortunately. increasingly
marginalized within a predominantly white
society. The face of Koorie tradition we see
in Australia isgaining a higher profile Ihrough
the work of bands such as Yothu Yindi, who
present bolh traditional Koorie music and
some mainstream rock, bul still much of die
music being produced by aborigines in Australia falls into the pub-rock country band
style. I recently received a catalog of Aboriginal music available from a Koorie distributor and couldn't find any traditional
recordings listed at all. Of possible intercsl
lo Discorder readers, when I recently ran a
world music identification competition none
of the entranls were able to correctly iden-
WIL
Hits alburn.
A press release from German
lechnobator l.assigue Kcndlhaus' record
label slates: "Welcome to Ihe new philosophy: donation! Nothing ti sacred
or untouchable, everything can be dri-
sected, re-manipulated, re-organized,
re-produced and redone. Cloned, that
is. Available for Ihe first linn in the
history of musk, a limited cditWB CD
with all the samples used m tk1 album
ferdo-il-yourst irmuskaltkeatkn.* ikk
art, let's done." Sella** palflts aside,
-_aUrey»url«'lii»gj»a*i_fcapMieci?
Sounds great I mean, cloning at the expense of all else is obviously fairly -ratting but ihe idea of catting through fhe
preciousness of "art" is something which
should 1* .lone at every mm. Sampling, to
me. seems to be ihe rnosl honest form of
theft you can have-as John Oswald mentioned, the equivalent of the quotation
mark. And art feeding on itself is nothing
new al all. Il has been going on for centuries It's only now. whenils's more obvious, and more importantly, when financial inlercsts can be served, lhat the whole
debate gets couched in moral terms.
Has there ever been a Canadian band
that's done anything important?
We believe the influence of Skinny Puppy,
John Oswald and Corey Hart to be self-
Ethnic sounds abound in Bloody Tourist. Do you find people are suspicious of
whitey performing indigenous music?
I think il depends on whal they're claiming to do and how well executed it IS.
Whites performing indigenous music divorced from its culture of origin I think
has people asking "Whai's Ihe point?"
Unfortunately, the alternative is often a
safe, passionless fusion. For example, when
you look at the line-up on a Mickey Hart
project (artists such as Zakir Hussain,
Babatunde Olatunji, Airto Moriera etc.
etc.) you'd be expecting something widi  :
greater power than the New Age album
lhat hits the shelves. 1 don't know whether
this comes from a desperate attempt not to
Head ou people's toes, of whether il is a
deliberate marketing exercise- aiming the
product at the middle America New Age
belt—bul. either way, 1 lliink it amid have
the cynic being fairly suspicious  There
il fad al
11 foi
" safe," trippy, tnbalainbience But, 1 mean,
why would someone buy an 0 Yuki Conjugate ora Musfcmgauzealbum whet*there's
still a Jon Hassell back-catalog around?
Do you think Peter Gabriel is doing
good things wilh Kealwarid?
Bnnging artisls such as Nusrat Faleh Ah
Khan, Geoffrey Oreyerna,To$hiTsushitori
ami the Burundr Drummers to anew Western audience js great. A number of tecent
i.-xasc*have been of less interest but that
lust reflects our micRtstin traditional
contemporary w orbi nunic, rather than
produced on multi-track then slaved to the
sequencer.
What is involved in the preparation of a
live industrial musk tour?
These are joys we will be discovering at the
end of '93, in preparation for the release of
our industrial album (early '94).
Care to comment on some of your former
Extreme labd-aates:
Muslimgauze
Impressed us all when we had only beard
one of his albums As a body of work, his
material becomes less interesting
Paul Schutze
llflllC
the development of the baud. Whilst his
early soundtracks were a little too naive
sounding for out tastes, tbe detailing and
subtle menace in all his lecent material is
down to the fact that when it was offered to
us it was being touted as Paert-esque. Listening to it in that context probably didn't do
John Duncan
Has done some slightly more interesting
malenal lhan his release for Extreme.
Do y»u feel your music wil be relevant in
tea years' lime? What elements do you
bdk-ve allows musical expression to stand
tke test of time? In your opinion what
records have stood the test of time?
Hopefully, if nol relevant in ten years* time,
Bloody Tourist will stand up as an interesting release, both within the body of world
music fusion the '80s/'90s produced and
also as a rather cynical comment upon it I
think with the trend towards jisnp-cut style
editing and composition some, of the righl
angle turns will be softened with time and
Ihe genre meshing won't :8e as surprising as
of the "quality" of Ihe malenal.
The educational side of Realworld is very
impressive It's difficult to judge Ihe information packs for schools without hatting weaitheM, bul Ihe fact that it is being
C -Schulz
Produced one of out favorite releases foi
1992. In -I.Film Ton. n was great to see
someone taking the relatively precious domain of iiiinimahsl into a darker sonic
IW
How do you find somelhing m common between Gagaku, Bach, Wagner and
Hassell'.' Terms like "passion," "ingenuity,"
"perfection." "orJ§J6ality" all fall prey to
subjective opinions<jj|certain musics' durability. All are affected by fashion of the day
and changing tastes. Obviously, il is quile
possible lo have an album "standing die test
of nine" hul still being incredibly daled.
The criteria used for western music
isn't particularly useful either, especially in
Ihe light of traditional world music Ultimately, I guess, it's much of the indigenous
music which has best stood the lest of lime,
bul a) such an answei sounds fauly precious
and bl there's no guarantee dial tins situation will coulinuc, given the rate of cullural
change taking place
Closing ei
The Scribbler CD has just been released in
services. Ii is a numbered, limited edition
pressing of the soundtrack based on Kafka's
77ie Trial. Negotiations are under way for
l!S. Canadian and European distribution.
Until such nine, if people are interested,
enquiries can be directed and copies inail-
.-1, and wilh a "hands
What is orchestral minimalism? Is it
floppy disc driven?
The second Shinjuku Thief release is or
chestral minimalism: in Ihe vein of artisls
such as Merlens, Nynian and Glass. Whilst
an LSO recording would have been appealing, financial considerations resulted
in an electronic rendering: produced on
the Kurtzwcil K2U00 and ihe Ensoniq
ASR10. The fragments of Kafka's German texl and filmic i
lerntory. Good stuff.
Merzbow
Right Brain Audilek probably our favorite
of his material. It seems quile subtle for
him, with greater limbral care being taken
than much of his more extreme noise, mosl
of which is quile uninteresting after the first
Jim O'Rourke
His track for the XX Section compilation
was greal. As much a.s we've tried, we can'l
get into Tamper. Part of this may come
Shinjuku Thief
PO Box 22
Glen Waverly
Victoria 3150
Australia
Extreme Records
PO Box 147
Preston 3072
Australia
(for   Shinjuku
Thief's Bloody
Tourist     CD)
O Entourage: Bill. Lisa. Neko. Robynn, Beez. Bryce. Dave.
Grant, Nick, Aaron. Bob. Glint. John. Ron. Wade, Graig.
Johnny, Kenny. Robbie. Shauna. Tommy.
. of times we stayed at c
Number of times wo -iu_- j Motel %■. 2 (In
America. Motel 6's don't have norabers on the doors;
you get a key. a map. a password and a warning
NOT TO OPEN THE DOOR UNTIL MORNING ONCE YOU
ARE LOCKED INI)
Number of times Lisa received unsolicited smooches.
3 (no tongues though, thank god).
Number of tattoos received: 2 (Robynn got a pretty
rose on her shoulder: Neko got a kickass scary
spider on her neck. Luckily they washed off about
a week later.)
Pieces of Dubble Bubble given out: 900
Loads of laundry done: 7
Number of times you can sing "Prairie Town" (Neil
Young version) on the way into Winnipeg: 29
Number of little golden boy3 spotted: 3 (Winnipeg.
Madison. Montreal)
Number of cub kids' club members who showed up
Number of people
who offered to I
f) and then told
house i. anoui .>- ,.,,...
us the best day of his life was when the
was drained and he and his buddy went down with
machetes and cut the heads off 500 dying carp so
we scrammed before we got macheted ourselves: 1
Number of people who will be showing up at our
house this summer if everyone that we told to "Come
out and stay with usl" does: 271
Facts about The Smugglers:
• don't know how to operate a washing machine
- ~i~i r-hp.ss and read Sassy while driving
Facts about Seaweed:
• love stinkbombs
• tour van has Nintendo, fully stocked wet bars. 2
VCRs (to show Teminator and Star Wars) and fax
facilities
• adore Venom
• never heard of Tiger ice-cream
• can sing "Blowin- in the Wind" in German
• never tire of fart jokes
• fave expressions include "Dude/." "Word up/" and
'You Canadians better watch yer fuckin' backs!"
Facts about The Hanson Brothers:
• cute butt ends (we saw Johnnys after the sh<
in Moncton: a little sweaty but...)
• good at darts
• enjoy poker (but watch out/ they're sharks!)
• do great Jello Biafra imitations
Best thing about touring with the Smugglers: every
single show is fun to watch and sometimes they
even let Lisa come up and sing part of "Flying Buttress"/
Worst thing about touring with the Smugglers:
those suit jackets really stink after they play.
Cool bands we saw:
• Citizen Fish (Nelson) - You gotta go see that guy
do the monkey dance/
• Thee Deadbeatniks (Kingston) - Fun fun fun and
cute too/
• Platon et ses Caves (Montreal) - Cesar et ses
Romans a-go-go. Neko danced with them and after
the show they let her try on one of their togas/
• Hemlock (Charlottetown) - Jethro Tull meets Pink
Floyd complete with IS guitars, synthesizers, mandolin, lute, recorder, smoke machine and a monk
who circulated through the crowd waving a censer. They're *l in the Maritimes/ Watch for the
upcoming double bill with Superconductor/
• Chimpanzees (New York City) - They dress in monkey suits, make monkey faces and hand out bananas. Best song: "Snapple Ice Tea"/
• Poster Children (Minneapolis) - We love you. Rose/
Cool bands we just missed seeing: Ween. jale.
Sebadoh. Sloan. Venom. Eric's Trip (but they did
leave a message in Moncton for us saying "hi /")
Celebrities we saw in Hoboken. HJ-. Frank Sinatra's
mother. Steve Shelley. Garnet Timothy Harry. Georgia Habley and Ira Kaplan from Yo La Tengo (on
separate occasions/). Betty Colatrella. Kim and
Melanie from the Muffs, steelpolebathtub.
Good fights:
• Neko and a mosher in Catgary - Neko got a black
eye but you should've seen the other guy/
• Robynn and the floor in Calgary
Grant and some big-necked jocks in Saskatoon:
Contest question some people got: What's round
at the ends and high in the middle?
Biggest Mohawks and
Charlie Manson' t-shirts:
in New Haven. CT conveniei
across from a burning i
where we had a swell sho
of a PUNKS AGAINST COl
extravaganza, raking in
spit and ten whole dolla
got to pet a rat named f
fc    ■ ronTe3t question nobody got: What Ne
s_ng is -M. Chinchilla" based on?
If you're feeling down and tired, a green mud mask ^^^^^^^
will freshen you right upl Aaah. ^^^/^^
Best all-
play chess and read Sassy w ^ o(jt|ef on   luckily he was able to scare them off with his a
. love donuts (there s a DunKi jn_ |<apate noves before any blood was shed
the P.E.I- ferryl) • Robynn and a wall in our prisoncell dorm in
. never tire of fart jokes ^^ ^^ _ |ot Charlottetown - the wall won: it bent her glasses
. call their girlfriends and pare ________U»,-+ nnA - i k ___■
(awwwww)
-e free pigshaves      _^^^^^ Funnest cover: By request, a ten-second v.
"Wipe Out" in Madison.
• Grant and a branch of Hemlock
all-purpose remedy: "The Magic Flower" a mys-
us naturopathic syrup which cured everything
from sore throats to constipation. Aaron from
Seaweed was hooked on it before we got out of
B.C.
Food that people who were kind enough to let us
stay with them fixed us for breakfast (in some
cases ready on the table by the time we got up: can
you believe it????):
• pancakes (Nelson. Calgary. Toronto) 9£_£
• scrambled eggs (Ottawa)
• french bread & strawberries (Montreal)
• stale popcorn (Chicago)
• Samba: the coffee of El Exegente (New York)
What we ate for breakfast every other day of the
tour: Subway veggie-cheese sub-no hot peppers!
Best interview: CJSW in Edmonton-the dj let us play
"Panama" AND "Hot For Teacher"!
What a road manager does:
• moves poo so we don't step in it
• makes sure everyone takes a pee at gas stations
• wakes us up to play and do interviews
• supplies us with Jolly Ranchers. Mr. Pibb and
Cosno
• sells stuff
• doles out beer tickets (keeping half for himself)
and per diems
• does Jerry Seinfeld impressions
• humps gear
• counts all the money
Sauciest bitch: Grant Lawrence
Robynn wins a dare/
In Winnipeg. Seaweed bet Robynn she couldn't stand
up and play for an entire set but she did (and she
sang backups, too/), so Seaweed had to play an
entire Robynn-approved set including Beat Happening's "Foggy Eyes" and a Spook and the Zombies
song!
Fun
fans:
• the hip-
P'e      guy
Minneapolis who told us he"
really hated our show "because e-
probably saying they liked it"
• the guy with the homemade cub*
with a little green Mint Records lo,
• the man right ap front in Windsor
aviator glasses and swigging coe
was from Detroit: you can't get coc
counter there.)
• Nicole in London who knew the wo,
The Water Gave Me" and wants to
tribute band with her friend Tim
• the guy in Edmonton who thourtit
said something mean about us onlsl
wanted to beat them up
• Melissa in Minneapolis who does \ h
Or Quit If '2lne and invjted us a M
Riot Grrl convention in August      I
Why all-ages shows are the best:
• lots of kids having fun - no fight
• dog piles on Robynn during mac
scrambles for stickers and gum
• free Cokes!
• cute boys
• bootleg ou>b p<o<p stickers
iOfth-CaHing,
■wRopobBk-Calgary., Most  "Free
The Tune Inn
itly located
automobile
was part
(RUPTION
lots of
rs. Lisa
'ussy.
A tip: Make sure you have lots of time when yoo
stop at the Giant Apple/Peter Puck Museums between Toronto and Kingston, otherwise you'll be
late for the show and everyone will be mad at you.
What nation produces the most apples in the world:
Canada. USA or China? If you guessed USA. you're
nght/
Things to watch for while driving on the New Jersey turnpike at night:
• big trucks oozing dayglo green radioactive muck
• nude people in cars
*dUoa kn,
a«at0
'ow ft')
Diamond
0 miles
^ZZ^'^^osit
car whi/e |
»'• be,
f»e frr
^?to£ff*E»*-=
ed"st        e''ne3-„   3&o0
'   fiobtne
Things we killed:
• a Canada Goose (Saskatchewan)
• several porcupines (New Brunswick) - Lisa
thought they were dried up foxes!
• a swallow (near the Peace Arch border cross-
ing)
Things we barely managed to avoid killing:
• a pretty pink pig (middle of the highway between
Calgary and Edmonton)
• each other (various places)
Scariest moment: When a ghostly Inuit by fhe name
of Ernie Ouilukpuk and his three dogs. Oolie. Biff and
Sam. stepped out of the woods when Bill was taking a leak by the side of the road at 1 an near
Bangor. ME.
Interesting things about Moncton:
• the highway coming info town is red (weird dirt)
• lots of rednecks and an enclave of white
supremacists - ick/
• Magnetic Hill: you put your Buick Regal into neutral and a strange force pulls you UPHILL/
Good things aboot Montreal:
• potato latkes at Main's
• recording and mixing 10 3ongs in 3 hours (including timeout to watch that Brady Bunch special on
TV) with Kevin Komoda in a little studio in the old
part of the city
• pest
• Leonard Cohen. Okay, so he wasn't there when
we dropped by his house buf Rebecca de Mornay
invited us in for a drink anyway. You know what?
She's not that pretty in real life.
One thing that makes the Maritimes a-ok with us: All
soda pops cone in those skinny old style painted
bottles. Even Crystal Pepsi. Shauna Hanson collected a whole set.
An interesting fact about P.E.I.: People there point
their satellite dishes at the ground to pick up secret TV signals.
Did you know it's always cloudy in North and South      was '"epe
Dakota?
Biggest drug store in the world: Wall Drug, in Wall.
SD! Free ice water/ 50-foot dinosaur/ Real Live
Jackalopel A/l-you-can-eat corndogs/ World famous Hupmobile/ Watch for the Burma-shave style
billboards starting about 300 miles away in Iowa/
Amazing points of interest we missed.-
• Sudbury Nickel (Please. Bill?" "No.")
• Hershey's Factory ("Please. Bill?/" "No.")
• Mount Rushmore ("Please. Bill?!" "No.";
• Devil's Tower ("Please. Bill?//" "No." "Buf. remember Close Encounters of the Third Kind?" "No.")
A question: Why do little bald punk rock kids all over
Canada like sticking stickers on their heads so
Good things about having a drummer from Tacoma.
USA:
• good af fighting
• likes Lucky Strikes and Chesterfield Kings
• has snappy answers for American border guards
while they hold us for hours questioning us in separate rooms and searching the car (luckily they never
found our stash of Canadian Dubble Bubble/)
• turned us on to Taco Bell Sit bu
• likes hockey (go Rockets/)
Most packed show: The Bronx (used to be a Salvation Army mission). Edmonton. We thought people
would hate us but fhey didn't/ A boy gave Lisa a
present of a necklace made out of a bicycle gear/
Best part of playing the 1st Ave club in Minneapolis
(and no. Prince doesn't own it!).- You get to disco
dance as much as you want. Hick did The Worm/ Bill
put his hands on broken glass/ Dave & Neko danced
on a big platform-just like Soul Train!
IS
Worst part: Seeing Dave Pirner-he looked like hell/
Weirdest gig: Continental Divide. NYC. We weren't
supposed to play at all. then 1313 Mockingbird
Lane featuring Haunted Houseman didn't show
(whew/) so we ended up headlining. Phil Spector
faining a very low profile: later
Best giant things:
• evil potato wearing a top hat near Fredericton
(actually, it looked suspiciously like Mr. Peanut)
• Goodyear tire with barbed wire fence around it
on the highway outside Detroit
• ice-cream cone with happy cherry on top
goose. Wawa (we made an offering of millet on
behalf of the one we killed)
1 can of Budweiser in Madison
smiley-face barn in Alberta
bright orange moose
pinhead gophers at Gopherville. Saskatchewan
Grant's balls (although we never actually saw
Lhem. he repeatedly told us they're the size of fhe
great lakes - Erie and Superior)
Best poster: The one that billed us as "All Girl Noise
Band from California"
 -"""y a very 	
wa^ we gave him a copy of Hot Dog Day any-
Nicest policeman: The one who gave
Bill directions to the Lounge Ax (the
coolest bar we played in—it even
had a photo booth!) while spinning
around in a circle directing traffic
in a busy Chicago-slum intersection.
Meanest policeman: A tie between
the one who gave us a speeding
ticket near Fernie (one day after
we left home) and the one who gave
us a speeding ticket near the middle of nowhere. Wyoming (one day
before we got home).
m. ON • 17ttvZaphod Beebl«brox-Ottaw_ OH • 18th-*_-io<_e Rock Cof e-
PQ-mh-recordingwi m   Thought*' 330. Thunderclap Newman
BBS!   'Something in the Ai/329. Who ' Baba
:::::
:::::
1 lnah oilerkinmen
701 of your favorite
songs chosen by
Tone Loc "Cheeba Cheeba' 288. John
Zorn Tho Big Gundown' 287. Scraping
OW 328. Ramonea "BWzkneg Bop'    Foetus From Tha Wheel 11 Moot You in
£   327. MARRS "Pump Up the Volume'326.    Poland, Baby" 286 Davt Brubek Take
I
__t£ Clash 'Magnificent Seven' 325. Public
5S£ Enemy'Black Steel in the Hour of Chaos"
!?••£ 324.PereUbu'FiralSolution'323.HtrTy
rS5t Nillson'Jump into the Fire" 322. Talking
IjjSj- Head* "Cross-Eyed and Painless" 321.
Polar Gabriel Tho Intruder" 246. Pin-
Floyd -Careful With That Axe Eugene"
245. KLF'Chi Out" 244. Kato Bush 'Big
Sky* 243. Hank Williams 'Rarrtkn' Mart*
242. Grand Funk Railroad 'Inside Looking Ouf 241. Nick Cava -Weeping Song'
240. Magazine 'Back to Nature1 239.
Invaders of tha Heart 'Spirit* 238. Cars
Bill  .Mullein.
fg
Five* Kool and tha Gang 'Spirit ol the
lie' 284. Can 'Halleluwah' 283.
Aretha Franklin '(You make me fool
like) A Natural Woman' 282. Tha Tha
'Sweat Bird of Truth' 281. Primal Scream
•Come Together^BO.AIiceCooper "Halo
of Flies" 279. Screaming Blue Messiahs "Someone to talk to' 278. Tha Faces
'Stay With Me' 277. Donna Summer
"Love to Love You* 276. Dinosaur Jr.
'Just Like Heaven" 275. Spacemen 3
'Revolution' 274. Bob Dylan
"Subterannean Homesick Blues' 273.
Stevie Wonder 'Higher Ground" 272.
Paris 'The Devil Made Me Do It' 271.
Body Count 'Body Count' 270.
Subhumans 'Fuck You' 269. Violent
Femmes 'Add it Up' 268. Laibach 'Sympathy for tha Devil" 267. Jesus Christ
Superstar "Trial Before Pilate" 266. XTC
"It would be pretty presumptuous of me to
say what your favorite song of all time is...."
— Bill Mullan.
It began November, 11th, last Remembrance Day (no, this is not nostalgia!). It
ended a little before midnight of June 16th:
we hit #1. There were no injuries. It was fun.
It was RADIO. The countdown was my way
of saying "So long, thanks for the fish." Why
701 ? Why not! Why do it at all? Why go to all
the trouble? Again, why not! My scientific
method for compiling the list was to consider
every song ever written except: a) songs
which have been used in TV commercials; b)
songs I am sick of; and c) songs I have never
heard. So cast aside your preconceptions,
murder your dogma and understand that
Neil Diamond and Ice Cube do both exist in
the same universe.
18 IS&&£i2E£u£il
The "Entertainment" program will
continue its fine tradition of broadcasting every Wednesday night from 9 through
midnight, however, with its new producer Justin Love. Expect more of the
same and expect much, much more.
Expect the 'Peel Sessions' off of BBC
shortwave (10-11PM every program),
drama, adventure, comedy, mystery and
suspense. But most of all expect ENTERTAINMENT!
349. Killing Joke'Requiem' 348. Yello
'Si Senor the Hairy Grill" 347. John
Cale "Mercenaries (Ready lor War)'346.
Police 'Invisible Sun" 345. Massive Attack "Safe from Harm' 344. Creedence
Clearwater Revival 'Who'll Stop the
Rain' 343. Camper Van Beethoven
Take the Skinheads Bowling' 342. Roky
Erikson "Bum the Flames" 341. Cocteau
Twins 'Pandora* 340. Art of Noise
'Ambiant Collection (excerpt)' 339. Anne
Peebles 'I Can't Stand the Rain' 338.
The Cure 'Cold' 337. Three Dog Night
'Never Been to Spain' 336. Beatles
'Revolution 1' 335. Guns and Roses
'Civil War' 334. Jean Michel Jarre
'Ethnicolour* 333. Lynton Kwesi
Johnson 'Reality Poem" 332. DOA "War
in the East" 331. X'I Must Not Think Bad
Strawbs 'Where is this Dream of Your
Youth* 320. Iggy Pop "Pumpm' for Jill"
319. Biondie 'One Way or Another" 318.
Cramps 'Surfin Dead" 317. Small Faces
"rtchykoo Park" 316. Synergy "Phobos
and Deimos Go to Mars' 315. Human
League 'Dreams of Leaving* 314. Doors
*LA. Woman' 313. Tim Buckley "Song
to the Siren' 312. Mike Oldfield
"Ommadawn (part 1)' 311. Byrds 'My
Back Pages* 310. Nirvana Territorial
Pissings" 309. Dead Kennedys Too Dtunk
to Fuck" 308. Motorhead 'Eat the Rich'
307. Van Morrison 'Madame George'
306. Can 'Future Days' 305. T-Bone
Burnette "Helner a nd Disney* 304. Crass
'Reality Asylum* 303. Staple Singers
'I'll Take You There' 302. The Specials
'Ghost Town' 301. Curtis Mayfield
"Pusherman" 300. Clash "Clampdown"
299. Pixies 'Wave of Mutilation' 298.
The Jesus and Mary Chain 'Sidewalking*
297. Shirley Bassey 'Goldfinger" 296.
Godley & Creme "(excerpts from) Consequences' 295. Czukay/Wobble/
Liebzeit 'Mystery* 294. Bruce
Springsteen 'Adam Raised a Cain' 293.
Bob Dylan 'Ifs Alright, Ma, I'm Only
Bleeding" 292. Minutemen 'Price of Paradise" 291. Billy Bragg leviStubbe Tears'
290. Residents 'Love Me Tender* 289.
'Moving in Stereo/All Mixed Up" 237. The
Band 1 Shall Be Released' 236. Dr.
John "Walking on Gilded Splinters' 235.
Neil Young 'Down by the River" 234.
ABBA 'S.O.S' 233. The Cure "Never
Enough' 232. Orchestral Manouevret
in tho Dark 'Ertola Gay" 231. Faith No
Mora *We Care A Lof 230. Trouble Funk
'Drop the Bomb' 229. James Brown "Let
Yourself Go' 228. Roxy Musk 'If There
is Something' 227. Dead Kennedys
'WeVe Got a Bigger Problem Now' 226.
Nomeansno 'Dad' 225. Kinks 'All the
Day and All the Night" 224. Boo Radleys
'Song for Up!" 223. Soni: Youth Total
Trash' 222. Beatles 'All Too Much' 221.
Bob Marley 'Stir it Up' 220. Grateful
Dead 'Dark Star* 219. Einsturzende
Neubauten 'Seele Brennf 218. Beastie
Boys "33% God" 217. Sly & The Family
Stone Thank U Falletin Me Be Mice Elf
Agin'216. David Bowio'Ashes to Ashes'
215. Deep Purple 'Child in Time' 214.
Jello Biafra l Keith Leblanc "Message
from Our Sponsor/Object Subjecf 213.
Kate Bush "Wow" 212. Led Zeppelin
"Whole Lotta Love" 211. Rare Earth "(I
know) I'm Losing You" 210. Lee Perry &
the Dub Syndicate 'Last Train to
Doomsville' 209. Wall of Voodoo 'Lost
Weekend" 208. Metallica "One"207.Eddy
Kendriks 'Keep on Truckin" 206. Van
Morrison 'St. Dominic's Preview" 205.
Steve Earle "Copperhead Road" 204.
Midnight Oil "Hercules" 203. Sugarcubes
•Birthday" 202. Screamin' "I Put a Spell
•Dear God" 265. Wire "A Touching Display* 264. David Essex "Rock On' 263.
Lou Reed 'Street Hassle' 262. Dead
Can Dance 'Cantara' 261. Ennio
Morricone The Fails' 260. Rhythm is
Rhythm The Strings of Life' 259. Black
Sabbath 'Sabbath Bloody Sabbath' 258.
Nine Inch Nails 'Head Like a Hole' 257.
Run DMC "Proud to Be Black" 256. Simon
& Garfunkel The Boxer" 255. Genesis
'Supper's Ready1254. The Who 'I Can
See For Miles' 253. Public Emmy 'Contract on the World Love Jam/Brothers
Gonna Work it Ouf 252.808 State'Cubik*
251. The Clash 'Safe European Home'
250. Godfathers 'Birth School Work
Death' 249. Suicide 'Frankie Teardrop'
248. Beach Boys "Good Vibrations' 247.
on You" 201.lsaac Hayes "Do Your Thing*
200. Mason Williams "Classical Gas'
199. Lydia Lunch 'Black Ju Ju* 198.
Donovan 'Hurdy Gurdy Man' 197. Aztec Camera 'Jump' 196. David Bowie
"Sweet Thing/Candidate/Sweet Thing"
195. Creedence Clearwater Revival
•Ramble Tamble" 194. Guadalcanal Diary "Kumbayah" 193. Cheap Trick 'Surrender" 192. Slayer "South of Heaven'
191. Swans 'New Mind' 190. Can 'Vitamin C189. Bauhaus 'Exquisite Corpse'
188. Chambers Brothers 'Time Has
Come Today* 187. Muddy Waters 'Man- nish Boy* 186. Happy Mondays 'Step
On" 185.0'Jays 'For the Love of Money"
184. Mothers of Invention "Absolutely
Free" 183. Negativland "Escape from
Noise/Stress in Marriage" 182. Future
Sound of London "Papua New Guinea"
181. My Bloody Valentine "Feed Me
with Your Kiss" 180. Inspiral Carpets
Tainted Love" 179. Iggy Pop"Repo Man"
178. Dub Syndicate "Night Train" 177.
Jane's Addiction "Ted, Just Admit it"
176. Echo & the Bunnymen "Do it Clean"
175. Simple Minds "Premonition" 174.
Grace Jones "Slave to the Rhythm" 173.
Funkadelic "Standing on the Verge ol
Getting it On" 172. Bob Dylan "Desolation Row" 171. Holger Czukay "On the
Way to the Peak of Normal" 170. St.
Etienne "Like the Swallow" 169. Patti
Smith "Rock 'n' Roll Nigger" 168. U2
"Eleven O'Clock Tick Tock" 167. The
Doors "Break on Through" 166. Clash
"One More Time/One More Dub" 165.
James Brown/Afrika Bambatta "Unity"
164. Captain Beefheart "Hot Head" 163.
Stranglers "Walk on By" 162. Bomb the
Bass 'Beat Dis" 161. Pop Will Eat Itself
"Hit the High Tech Groove" 160. Defunkt
"Razor's Edge" 159. George Clinton
"Atomic Dog" 158. James Brown "Mind
Power" 157. The Jam "That's Entertainment" 156. Beatnigs "Television" 155.
23 Skidoo "Gl Fuck You" 154. Guess
Ray Charles "Living for the City"
King Crimson "Starless" 112. Brain
"Big Ships" 111. The The "Giant"
Neil Diamond "Holly Holy" 109.
Motorhead "Ace of Spades" 108. 1000
Homo DJs "Supernaut" 107. Midnight
Oil "Power and the Passion" 106. Paris
"Break the Grip of Shame" 105. Donny
Hathaway "The Ghetto" 104. Butthole
Surfers "PSY" 103. Neil Young "Heart of
Gold" 102. Television "Marquee Moon"
101. Marianne Faithful "As Tears Go
By" 100. Nick Cave "The Mercy Seat" 99.
Led Zeppelin "Dazed and Confused" 98.
Velvet Underground "Watting for the
Man" 97. Slickers "Johnny Too Bad" 96.
KLF "Justified and Ancient" 95. Miles
Davis "Bitches Brew" 94. Frankie Goes
to Hollywood "Relax" 93. Malcolm
McLaren "Buffalo Gals" 92. LL Cool J
"Mama Said Knock You Out" 91. B-52s
"Dance this Mess Around" 90. The Who
"My Generation" 89. David Bowie "Station to Station" 88. Four Tops "Walk
Away Renee" 87. Current 93 "Falling
Back in Fields of Rape" 86. Julee Cruise
"Mysteries of Love" 85. Husker Du "Turn
on the News" 84. U2 "Exit/Gloria" 83.
Patti Smith "Gloria" 82. Jimi Hendrix "If
Six Was Nine" 81. Yes "Close to the
Edge" 80. The Orb "Earth (Gaia)" 79.
Prince "1999" 78. Gary Clail "Human
Nature" 77. Clash "(Armagideon Time)
Kick it Over" 76. Rolling Stones "Street
Fighting Man" 75. Brian Eno "Baby's on
Bowie "Ziggy Stardust" 48. Pixies "Monkey Gone to Heaven" 47. NWA "Straight
out of Compton" 46. Isaac+layes "Theme
from Shaft" 45. Smiths "How Soon is
Now" 44. War "The World is a Ghetto" 43.
^H__H_i_U_Mlffif
Grandmaster Flash "The Message" 42.
Public Image Limited "Rise" 41. The
Who "Won't Get Fooled Again" 40. REM
"It's the End of the World as We Know it
(and I Feel Fine)" 39. Byrds "Tambonne
Man" 38. Husker Dii "Eight Miles High"
37. Ministry "Stigmata" 36. George McRae
35. Joy Division "Love Will Tear Us
Apart" 34. Peter Gabriel/Robert Fripp
"Here Comes the Flood" 33. Laurie
Anderson "Big Science" 32. David Bowie
Who 'American Woman" 153. T Rex Telegram Sam" 152. Nomeansno "Self Pity"
151. Artists United Against Apartheid
'Sun City (mega mix)" 150. Toots and
the Maytals "Funky Kingston" 149. Clash
"Straight to Hell" 148. Jimi Hendrix" 1983
a Merman I Should Be" 147. Rolling
Stones "2000 Light Years from Home"
146. Hawkwind "Master of the Universe"
145. Staple Singers "A Hard Rain's a
Gonna Fall" 144. Jethro Tull "Thick as a
Brick" 143. REM "Radio Free Europe"
142. Nancy Sinatra "These Boots are
Made for Walking" 141. Led Zeppelin
"Gallows Pole" 140. Prince "Sign of the
Times" 139. Neville Brothers "Brother's
Keepers" 138. Mott the Hoople "All the
Young Dudes" 137. Sly & the Family
Stone "Everyday People" 136. Badfinger
"Baby Blue" 135. Sonic Youth "Expressway to Your Skull" 134. Beatles "Revolution #9" 133. Sid Vicious "My Way" 132.
Pogues "Fairy Tale of New York" 131.
Waterboys This is the Sea" 130. The
Who "5:15" 129. Tom Waits "Downtown
Train" 128. Pink Floyd "Dogs" 127. Suicidal Tendencies "Institutionalized" 126.
Sinead O'Connor/The Edge "Heroine"
125. Curtis Mayfield "Right on for the
Darkness" 124. Brian Eno & David Byrne
"The Jezebel Spirit" 123. Peter Gabriel
"Biko" 122. Dinosaur Jr. "The Wagon"
121. Jimi Hendrix "Voodoo Chile (Slight
Return)" 120. Kraftwerk "Trans Europe
Express/Metal on Metal/Hans Schubert"
119. Elvis Presley "Suspicious Minds"
118. Buffalo Springfield "For What it's
Worth" 117. Tackhead "The Game" 116.
Queen/David Bowie "Under Pressure"
115. Van Morrison TB Sheets" 114.
Fire" 74. Devo "Mongoloid" 73. Slow "Have
Not Been the Same" 72. Alice Cooper
"School's Out" 71. Sex Pistols "God Save
the Queen" 70. Stone Roses "Fools Gold"
69. Eric B. and Rakim "Paid in Full (Cold
Cut mix)" 68. Talking Heads "Burning
Down the House" 67. Waterboys "Whole
of the Moon" 66. New Order "Blue Monday" 65. Dead Kennedys "Holiday in
Cambodia"   64.   DOA   "War"   63.
Einsturzende Neubauten "Haus der
Luge" 62. The Jesus and Mary Chain
"You Trip Me Up" 61. Beatles "I arr>the
Walrus" 60. Primal Scream "Higher than
the Sun" 59. Clash "Police and Thieves"
58. Stevie Wonder "Superstition" 57. Bob
Marley "Exodus" 56. Violent Femmes
"Never Tell" 55. Beatles "Helter Skelter"
54. Public Enemy/Anthrax "Bring the
Noise" 53. AC/DC "Highway to Hell" 52.
Bob Dylan "Knockin1 on Heaven's Door"
51. Marvin Gaye "What's Goin' On" 50.
Gil Scott-Heron "B Movie" 49. David
"Heroes/Helden" 31. Jimmy Cliff "The
Harder They Come" 30. Can "Yoo Doo
Right" 29. Parliament Funkadelic "Get
off Your Ass and Jam/Night of the
Thumposaurus People" 28. Pink Floyd
"Interstellar Overdrive" 27. Led Zeppelin "Kashmir" 26. Sly & the Family Stone
"Stand/We Can Make rt if We Try" 25.
John Bartles "Call All Humans (Get off
the Fucking Planet)" 24. My Bloody Valentine "Only Shallow/I Only Said/Soon"
23. Van Morrison "Listen to the Lion" 22.
Prince "The Cross" 21. Temptations
"Papa was a Rolling Stone" 20. Ennio
Morricone "The Good the Bad and the
Ugly" 19. Ice-T "Colors" 18. Jello Biafra
_DOA "Full Metal Jackoff"17. Neil Young
"Like a Hurricane" 16. Rolling Stones
"Gimme Shelter" 15. Sonic Youth "Trilogy: the Wonder, Hyperstation, Eliminator jr." 14. Bob Marley "Redemption Song"
13. Negativland "U2" 12. U2 "Bad" 11.
Bob Dylan "Like a Rolling Stone" 10.
Velvet Underground "Heroin" 9. The
Doors "The End" 8. James Brown "Doing it to Death" 7. Clash "London Calling"
6. Jimi Hendrix "Are You Experienced"
5. Beatles "A Day in the Life" 4. Nirvana
"Smells like Teen Spirit" 3. Public Enemy "Fight the Power" 2. Sex Pistols
"Anarchy in the UK" 1. Bonzo Dog Band
"The Sound of Music"
s        V
■krotic-XX-ivi1
'I I v
MONDAY TD SRTURDRY
gpiri 2AM
9PM 12AM
DRINK SPECIALS
MONDAY
WEDNESDAY Hot Dog
cu|_^lDo9DaYf7,!
Sixinores°n9sof
nketchupy
from those
aibsters!
up your copy
hi Vancouver
.„.u, Track,
Scratch, Sam's
and Blast Records
- and everywhere
else through
Cargo and^ too!
Mot yet available
on Paw Paw St.
somewhere in
— Illinois.   '
Bill BAKER PHOTO
Mint Records • #699-810 West Broadway, Vancouver, BC Canada V5Z 4C9
Pacific Legal
Education Association
PHONE
291-0049
VOLUNTEERS
NEEDED
Are you an outgoing, spontaneous
man or woman over the age of 19
with a never-say-die attitude and a
good sense of humour?
We are a non-profit society that
helps young offenders and children
aged 8 to 12 who are at risk of getting
into trouble.
If you have about three hours per
week available for at least the next
six months we'd really like to hear
from you. We believe that one-to-one
interaction with a well-adjusted adult
can improve the behaviour of a
troubled child.
Interested? Please call us today. "Very   Important   and
Instrumental. ..since
1985,"   is   the   latest
dynamic attempt at
self-labelling by the
band which critics ,
have described in  f
the past as ranging in sound from
Surf to Punk to
Tex-Mex. The Toronto-based Shadowy    Men    on    a
Shadowy Planet have
been, almost exclusively, recording instrumental     sounds      %
since 1985 and their
newest effort on Cargo/
Jetpack records. Sport
Fishin':   The   lure   of
the   bait,   the   lack   of
the hook, continues the
great   unspoken   tradition of earlier releases
like Savvy Show Stoppers a.nd Dim the Lights,
Chill the Ham.
Don Pyle, Reid
Diamond and Brian
Connelly collectively
decided, close to a dt
ade ago, that they simply could not put into
the words all those musical visions and narratives which danced in
their heads. "We couldn't
make any lyrics into
rhyming couplets, so that's
why we had to be instrumental,'' explains Pyle.
"It's like painting a
wider, bright picture to
give you all the information in one sentence,"
Diamond adds. A case in
point, or several for that
matter, can be heard on
Sport Fishin'. "Off Our
Back, Conrad Black" is
a little ditty inspired by
tho band's failed experience in negotiating interest relief with The
Bay department store
chain. Early on in their
career, the shadowy ones
could n,ot repay the high
interest which accumulated on their purchase
of supplies desperately
needed for an upcoming
tour. Conrad Black, who
owned the retail chain
at the time, rejected ^j
request by the band
pay off their debt by
playing in Bay store
lobbies. "Conrad Black
was an entrepreneur,
improvises Diamond, "just
doesn't cut it lyrically."
"Honey, Your Wasting
Ammo" recounts a weekend tale of video-game
seduction. The generally
unimpressed shadowy girl-
friends     broke     with
mi
lo'by Derek von Kssen
Jj&f    |f •
te
«•»
technophobic tradition and became so
enraptured with the
new release of Space
Invaders, that after 10
minutes of video screen
brain washing, as an
enthusiastic Pyle claims,
"in this tiny voice one
of the women says,
'Honey, your wasting
ammo'." Laughter erupts,
and another wordless
classic is born. Not all
musical births, however, reach the point of
full studio-recorded
maturity. "Amish Father, " a conceptual piece
in which the band continually beat each other
up, has yet to be re
leased.    ^jjTJjpTTa
Tempered with their
subtle-as-a-hand-grenade
sense of humour is a
satirical side to the
Shadowy Men. Being
an avid fly-fisher (not
the   bird)   I   was   im-
busincss." Okay.
This remnant of punk
attitude is found in other
aspects of the band. Until
recently, the Shadowy
Men were a totally autonomous package: booking their own shows,
promotional and financial self management, repairing their own cars
and even sewing the
buttons on their pants,
the band symbolized improvisation and self-reliance. Diamond comments,
"with agents or managers they want to make
money, and as soon as
you're being managed by
somebody you become a
product." Still maintaining considerable autonomy
through their own Jetpack
Music, Cargo Records
now manufactures the
discs and MCA distributes the products. In
accounting for this slight
^^^hif t, Pyle explains, "they
pressed with the title can act like your parents
Tina suggest other  ways
BY PARIS
and '50's style covol
of Sport Fiahin'. The
band contends, how
~^^*_-rTng is not
fjfrity for any of
In fact, Pyle
ibes sport fishing
"pretty gross." So
hy the obvious reference to Sir Izaak Walton's
claim to literary fame
and B.C.'s main tourist
attraction? Pyle responds
in a completely unamused
voice, "the title is an
analogy for the Music
of doing things because
they have experience at
floggin' the round things."
Taking suggestions
from those who are experienced at giving them,
the group's latest release
had input from record
producer Steve Albini.
Having recently worked
on PJ Harvey's newest
disc and being a huge
fan of the band, the
prolific and inexhaustible producer helped the
i attain a
ve sound"
^eir instruments,
nakes a record
l-dimcnsional,"
I says, "and he
out of
nd people." Conveying his view of the
recording experience, Pyle
speaks of Albini, "he
gets tho naughty with
the nice." i^^^^^^
Apart from their
recordings and little-
known but highly addictive board game known
as "Schlagers" (now a
prized collector's item).
Shadowy Mon on a
Shadowy Planet have
been crooping into the
unsuspecting minds of
millions of television
viewers every week as
the house band for The
Kids in the Hall comedy seri
otic relation^
cording to Pyle, originated out of "friendship,   working  for  free
nilai
iibili-
ties." Apparently, Diamond and Connelly grew
up and went to High
School with Kidd- regular Bruce McCullough
(the short guy). Diamond also played in a
band with McCullough,
Connelly did the recording, and The Kids
began using Shadowy
Men music to open their
live shows. So when the
TV   comedy   scries   pi
loted the shadowed
ones were a natural choice.
A good business choice
too, as Tho Kids have
been renewed for another season and the
Shadowy Men have just
signed a now deal to stay
on for big bucks. Besides,
according to the band,
G.E. Smith and his Prime-
time Players were not
available, j^
So what's next for
the Shadowy Men on a
Shadowy Planet? Judg
ing by their past itinerary, they will be kept
quite busy. Having recently returned from a
successful mini-tour of
England (London, actually) where they also
completed some recordings for the "John Peel
Sessions," the Shadowy
Men arc recording some
new songs for The Kids
the Hall With all
i musical activity one
has to wonder where tho
members get all their
energy. Yes, I know,
other  bands record  new
once   in   a ■
lile   must
cians    even H
songs  picked!
"or movies
or   telcvisionB
but,    per
haps,   the   ta
___Hwhich
sets the Shade]
^K-cn on
a Shadowy PI
met apart
from  the   pac
k   is  their
collective musical altcr-
ego known as th
c Chateauy
Men. And, as
Pyle sums
up this moonlighting sonic
appendage, "the Chateauy
Men do weddings."
Shadowy Men on a Shadowy Planet (sans Chateauy
Men)   play   Vancouver's
Commodore   Ballroom
on July 24 with the
% Fastbacks and cuh
I  The   Sport   Fishin'
r Tour  is  part  of a
U West Coast schedule
■0-;   which is expected to
* take   them   trolling
* through   the  American
* part of Cascadia as well.
To celebrate the trophy
catch that is tho Shadowy    Men's    return    to
I   Vancouver, Discorder with
the help of Cargo Records
would   like   to give you
readers   the   chance   to
vin some primo S.M.S.P.
tuff. Just send us your
% b'gg08*- ^,sn story, OR a
fs picture    of   you    with
Myour prize catch, OR 2
proof of purchases from
i     box    of    Captain
Highliner's Fish Sticks
and  you   could   win
ono   of   three   grand
prizes:
East Coast Cod Catch (1st
prize)
Sport Fishin' CD
Dim tho Lights, Chill
The  Ham CD
Savvy Show Stoppers
CD
Sport Fishin' Accessories promo CD (featuring
2 unreleased tracks)
A Shadowy t-shirt
2 tickets to their Vancouver show and a chance
to moot  Don  Pyle
Tackle Box-set (2nd prize)
Sport Fishin' CD
Sport Fishin* Acccsso
Tics promo CD
2 tickets and a chance
to meet Brian   Connolly
Live Bait (3rd prize) -
Sport Fishin' CD
Sport Fishin' Accesso
rics promo CD
A fish burger din nor
at McDonalds with Reid
Entrants r>
legal age
tho tickets
for all i
a CD ^
cassettes). Entries^nrhst be
clearly marked with a
return address and day
phone number. All entries
received by noon of Wednes
day, July 21st. will be
eligible. Enter once, enter
often. Discorder staff and
immediate family members, as well as residents
of Quebec are ineligible.
JULY
© VANCOUVER
SPECIAL
IMMllWIIIBIffl
THE RANT; THE SARCASM
With Kim Sparkmarker away on tour
most of "Vancouver Special" will be my
fault this time around. But before I start
reviewing I'd like to briefly rant about
the lack of thrashing (I refuse to use the
word moshing) I've not seen at various
all-ages shows that I've managed to
stumble to throughout the year. Running
around in the pit was always a gred
spontaneous reaction to high energy music, but it seems to have become extinct
(Maybe I just went to the wrong shows?).
[/ _ say so. Why is it that I must suffer
through the nonsensical display of
"thrashing" at shows where it is
absolutely not merited. Ed.] Yeah, it
does get a little tired when it's more of a
"this is what we're supposed to do at a
hardcore show," but it sure is a hell of a
lot mote fun than standing around and
tapping your foot to the music as if you
were listening to Benny Goodman.
As far as pit violence goes, it tends
to look a lot more chaotic than it really is
(unless genuine, jock boneheads are
present) If I could survive that "violence"
as a scrawny 15-year old, expending lost
energy and having fun without getting
hurt, anyone can. Of course, maybe the
reason no one is dancing is because all the
Exploitation Retrospect, #37
Hailing out of New Jersey, Exploitation
TC3[1 ©@®[}_
MP@CSDWfl
Vancouver's
Largest Selection
of Almost New and Used
Paperbacks and
Magazine Back Issues
Large Range of
Hard Cover Books
Thousands of New and
Collector's Comics
We Buy, Sell or Trade
1247 Granville near Davie
682-3019
3347 Kingsway
430-3003
Open 7 Days a Week
Retrospect a basically an eKatainmrnt
-inc. It features movie reviews, music
reviews, 'zinc reviews, an interview with
rising underground film star Zoe Laund
and various ramblings about this and
that, including a put down of Spike lee
(I've read more than one criticism of him
lately). It's all written in a clever,
entertaining style that makes for a nice
light read. ($1.75 [U.S.] to P.O. Box
1155, Haddonfield, NI 08033-0708,
U.S.A.)
CURSE word, #4
CURSEword is a publication that hat
arisen to keep the public informed about
the KCMU/CURSE (Censorship Undermines Radio Station Ethics) situation.
KCMU Radio tried to change their format
to be more "commercially viable" by
bringing in some syndicated shows and,
essentially, a few people banded together
to Tight this, (see article in April
Discorder). CURSEwordteahm varioui
articles on this subject and on the role of
community radio in general, as well at
several music reviews. (Write to P.O.
Box 85839, Seattle, WA 98145 USA
Phone (206) 298-CURS.)
Warm Fuzzy, »\
Another fine addition to the beautiful
array of fanzines that now seem to flourish
in Vancouver. Lots of opinions,
questions, recipes and java. This is a feelgood 'zine that is both fun and thought
provoking at the same time. Issue #2
should be out by the time you read this,
check it out. They seek contributions,
too! ($1 to 343 E. 55th Ave., Vancouver,
B.C. V5X 1N2)
G—-ZUZ, #6-7(7)
Disclaimer — anyone who puts the
energy into printing a fanzine deserves
praise. BUT, anyone who states in his/
hex review of the Benefit for the Rape
Relief Centre that they left early to do a
two page review of strip bars...deserves
anodier hole in their head. ($2 ppd. to
297-810 W. Broadway, Vancouver, B.C.
V5Z4C9)
STEPPDN' ON GRANT'S TOES
Brand New Unit 7"
This 7* is long overdue but, alas, it is here
green vinyl and all. Three melodic
hardcore-type songs that remind me of
Shades Apart, latter-day 7 Seconds and,
hell, even some Dag
Nasty. "Summertime" is my pick: really
uplifting and sing-a-long-ish except I
can'tsing along 'cause no lyric sheet was
included, bummer. I've had the
opportunity to hear their new Shindig
prize recording so if you' ve been waiting
for this 7" to come out AND you're
digging it, then you'll be stoked on their
next release. For now, get this 7" to tide
you over til the next. (3 Minute Mile
Records, cfoCJSFRadio,TC216,Simon
Fraser University, Burnaby, B.C.)
REVIEWS
According to that other long-time,
"cutting edge," local entertainment 'zine,
Wretched Ethyl are a "punk" band.
They certainly have a heavy dosage of
early X in their sound (relatively short,
punchy tunes with a vocal style very
reminiscent of Exene) but it's better than
anything an X revival could come up
with. Because of that alone you should
write to them (#202-1255 Broughton
St., Vancouver, B.C. V6G2B4)
Second Guaaaing are back with
two tapes: If Picasso Could Have Painted
the Sea (recorded in March) and I Didn't
Mind the Snow (recorded in April).
-.Aww is far and above the superior of
the two; Picasso...  is somewhat
unsatisfying, almost as if the songs were
cast-offs from early recording efforts
...Show, on the other hand, is extremely
listenable. Many different influences
come to mind but an early-'80's, mellow
electro-pop sound dominates. The
songwriting is definitely improving and
the tape contains some quite memorable
melodies.
Nicely done tape cover too. (3573 W.
16th Ave. (bsmt), Vancouver, B.C. V6R
3C2)
Veterans of this year's Shindig
event, Drag tha River, play hard rockin'
hairshaker music very much in the vein
of Wool or Nirvana. The main problem
with this type of music is it walks a
tightrope between truly heavy, energetic
music and abysmal '70's retro-metal.
Unfortunately, DTR lean too far into the
'70's tenitory and are definitely in danger
of falling into the plod-rock gorge. (2905
St Kilda Avenue, North Vancouver,..C
V7N2A8)
North American Biaon took
me totally by surprise. With the name
and the goofy picture of Andy Gibb (or
someone like that, I don't fucking know
anything about '70's sleaze icons) I
expected a total novelty band. What I
didn't expect were 4 tracks of absolutely
rippin'.highenergy.rawasfuckhardcore.
The songs are fast and heavy but they're
also extremely well structured revealing
N.A.B.'s superior musicianship. The
vocals are powerful and raw-throated
with just the right edge of melody. All
this and intelligent, angry lyrics. How
could you not resist? (North American
Bison c/o KathieCrosby, 6103 St. Albion
Wy. #315, Mountlake Terrace, WA
98043 U.S.A)
The Empty Tomb's Welcome to
the Human Race tape has a cover familiar
to anyone who has seen the original
Agnostic front Viclin in Pain gatefold
Empty Tomb probably would have been
right at home with that old breed of NY
hardcore with their heavy, angry guitar
sound and the raw, shredding vocals.
Very memorable hardcore with a bite.
(P.O. Box 20714, Salem, Oregon 97307-
0714. The demo is $6.)
Shine's Sonrise CD isn't my
thing. I'm guessing that COAST Radio
plays them 'cause they have that "radio"
sound. Can't say I would change the
station 'cause I probably wouldn't even
think of listening to it It's pretty, sofl and
oh-so sweet at times but bar-rockin'
cheese at others. You decide, I'd rather
not (Box 327, 810 W. Broadway, Vancouver, B.C. V5C 4C9)
I listened to Roaatta Stone's
new demo more than once but it's exactly
what I stay away from: metal/rock that
doesn't challenge in anyway; try to be
cool and sly with enough rock to bang
your head. Pearl lam rip-offs don't make
you alternative! Shoulda sent it to Nite
Moves. Sorry! (Box 93559, Nelson PK.
P.O., Vancouver, B.C. V6E 4L7)
What a name! What a cover! Talk
about insanely stupid and silly. Tha
Flying Butt Pliara are five bored, and
probably drunk, guys from Delta who
got together and.voila! I don't get every
joke but Tm sure their friends find it
entertaining. I wish odier bands put as
much interest into their demos as these
guys. It's easy being cheezy. (5068 47A
Ave., Unit D, Defca, BC, V4K1T8)
Angry Candy's demo, however,
makes me want to get down and boogie
Upbeat and catchy, tha is definitely abeam
of sunshine in a dark night of demo
reviewing. Sounds Kke really early-'80'«
new wave-punk a ia the Cars, Go Gos and
Devo. I like t (2054 E. Broadway, Vancouver, BC V5N 1W7)
Whoa! The Starboya aca band to
be reckoned with. Really silly mosh nusic
done really well. You just gotta hke it I'd
like to see them bve though I probably
wouldn't be able to see them thru the mash
guitar so los Great sound quality.Ifk'sajoke
Ilovek; if they're serious I'm scared. (6268
, Burnaby, B.CV5B2Y2)
ALL-AGES SHOWS
SaL 3rd-Rusty Nads, Fez (from Victoria)
Conmuriry Centre (near the PN.E).
Man 12th - Anti-Arc Arrow (from San
Die^)andgue«ittheSou_iWaD(Lond_-
Rec. Centre).
Sat 17th - Club Groteque CD Refaae
party a the Hastings Community Centre
(bands tb.a)
Sat 31 at Sponge (from Colorado), 3-Day
Stubble (from San Francisco) and guests at
the South Wall
^ LJ^ "Consider The Alternative"
tX;  Fo9g's Captive Bead
y&f   Jewellery Company
•Piercings atThe Underground
710 Robson St. 681-8732 Thurs. - Sat. weekly
" "no attitude"- guaranteed
Phone: 322-8924
AN EVENING OF SONG & DANCE BY
Tuesday, August 3 • mm • vogue theatre
, TICKETS ON SALE SATURDAY AT ALL-*
> OR CHARGE BY PHONE 280-4444
iSl produced by Perryscope Concerts '93
22 n%&g2Z2&4J&*
Vs o-wpiwr gpArT  •) SAM'S
INDIE STREET
DRAG THE RIVER
arthurltis
dinkdinkdinkdinkdin^inkdinkdinkdinkdinkdinkdinkdinkdink
dinkdinkdinkdinkdinkdinkdinkdink.. just much heavier.
FEED YOUR BABYHEAO
Ffwd Your Bibyhaie
'...smashing goth/pop quartet... heavy on art, short on pretense...
one of the most promising acts to emerge on the Vancouver
scene of tote...' -The National Chart, March 1993
JACK FEELS FINE
Jmkfmknm
The theme music for an amusement park ride that has yet to be invented.
Diet hardcore" -L.S., Snipehunt, Spring 1993.
MOIST
Moist
One of the successes of this year's Music West Moist are making their
9-track album available in advance of their nationwide tour this
 summer, with their style of post-grunge pop.
BUM
The band spits out songs in the plenty-fast, brutally-loud category, though
they occasionally ease back a bit for a majestic Mott the Hoople-tsh anthem.
Produced by Kurt Blocrt (Fastbacks, Supersnazz, Tad, etc..) '
THE SMUGGLERS
I* The Hall $f Fsuu
This is the Smugs' first-ever non-vinyl offering, featuring their past hits plus 8
brand new guitar-pounders and 2 unreleased vintage thrashers - 20 songs in
all. Produced by Conrad Uno (Mudhoney, YFF, Monomen, etc..)
RICK COLBOURNE & HARD POETRY
HartPtatiy
'Now here's a guy who can comfortably wear his heart on his sleeve and still knock
you out with sheer strength of mind. A respected solo performer, Colboume struts
his pop stuff on this handsomer/ -National Chart
PROCESS
Extreme cutting-edge music at its fuckin' finest.
Currently on tour with the Smalls.
BNU
Brand Hew Unit
BNU's first release on 3 Minute Mile Records. A local Surrey band
with members of Vancouver's Head First and Cat's Game. Winners
of CiTR's Shindig'92.	
TEN FEET TALL
Alln
Don't believe the rumours. Ten Feet Tall haven't
split up. Alive features 8 great punk tunes from one
of Vancouver's best hardcore bands.
ATTENTION ALL BANDS
IF YOU HAVE ANY DEMOS, CDs, OR 7 INCHES AVAILABLE, WE WILL
GLADLYSELLYOURPRODUCTONACONSIGNMENTBASIS.FORFURTHER
INFORMATION, CONTACT SELIM AT 684-3722 (568 SEYMOUR ST.)
I AVARABLf M^YMOUR^JDJiVNTOWN], FOUR FL00RS0F FUN! _
So, here I ain, back again, kids.
My most sincerest of apologies
for missing last month's ish. See,
I'mon tins big ol' shady rock tour
widi that combo Doth Smugglers
and, well, it's takin' a long time.
At last month's deadline I was m
Ontario and had collected dick
for material to review. But now
it's a mouth later. I'm in I. A. al
the mighty C) of Fluf's house, and
I've collected plenty to review.
So, here goes...
First up doth be Bad Luck
#13, from Moncton, N.B., who
entiUed/_-.v£>i/«n».v7':7ri'Wc.v.IJ_-
fi, high end, poorly recorded '7()*s
style p-rock. Are there no bloody
Canada lias tor what? O says "the
vocals are too loud," and Smuggler Nick doesn't like Ihe lyrical
content, staling "it's self-proclaimed punk." Personally, it's a
C+ in my book cuz it's worth tlie
effort for a Canuck band to put
outvinyl. (Nim Records, 115 Liberty Cr., Moncton, NB, E1A 6X6)
And then there's the marketing kings of merch, Chicago's
The Coctails, with their EP 3/4
Time. As O says, il's amazing
this stuff is on vinyl. Ultra-cool
'n' original, soft 'n' quirky jazz.
These guys play the "rock circuit" and, man, this is one show
I'd like to see in a rock club.
Waltzes, polkas, Bavarian beats,
you name it, The Coctails play it.
0 says "it's a tail bit scary tliat
this is what's corning oul of Chicago these days" and "Ihis be
good golfing music." I also golta
mention that these guy s have Iheir
own dolls, stickers, buttons, everything. Write to them now: (Hi
Ball, 657 W. Lake St., Chicago,
IL 60661, USA)
Snagged the Vacant Lot's
Sympathy 7" on sale in Beloit,
Wisconsin. This one's been out
for a while but, shit, it's so great
1 gottamention it. Vicous power-
pop, hooks galore, catchy a.s hell.
Get it. O? O: "The Vacant
Lot...not as good a.s tlie Mummies, but who is?" (Vacant Lot,
Box 1300, Cooper Station, NY
NY ..10276-1300, USA)
So let s hear The Mummies' new one, also on Sympathy. Maybe O's right This one's
an absolute killer slab of pure
punk-garage. 1'vealways thought
die Mummies did loo many covers but. final ly. here's an original
lo lopall others. "You Musl Fight
To Live On The Planet Of Ihe
Apes." An amazingly hilarious
lockei of super-hit potential. Also
included is a peppy instrumental
ami another co ver of the BeaUes'
"P in Down." Collectors Hem for
sure!()'.'O: "TheMummies...nol
as good as Ihc Vacant Lol, bul
who is?" (No address).
with the way-hep Sea Monkeys. Alter their spastic
Rainonesy show, singer Dave
passed me their new 7-song 7"
for Dionysus: rockin'. warped,
pop-culture punk. Everybody in
this room dunks dial "Only Dogs
Can Hear It" is the best song ami
we've only heard twoof the seven.
"You're Nol Fonzic" is the best
bang for your buck, so far.
(Dionysus, P.O. Box 1975,
Burbank.CA 91507, USA)
And here's my big on-tour
discovery: Atlanta's The
Subsonics. A fuckin' great pop
Velvet Uiidcrground-slyleraunch
on banana vinyl-The B-side is a
Richard Heil cover. Watch for
these hep cats in Vancouver soon.
O thinks they should check their
calender. (Worry Bird, P.O. Box
95485, Atlanta, GA 30347, USA)
The Dugans are from Albany, NY and their finely packaged 7", "Corner of this Bar" bAv
"She Wants More," is one of the
better things aboul this Replace-
inents/Mudhoney wah-wah-
esque rock. Nol bad bu I no knockout, ya know7 () loves the photo
on the back. (Paint Chip, 12401,
Albany, NY 12212, USA)
Now let's pay tribute to our
line friends here in the City of
Angels. First is Mike Olson's (a
past partner of < I'slrom (he sadly
broken up, Olivelawn) new group,
The Bottom Feeders. This
noisy punk comes off likeacyber-
dirge   of   the   Mummies   or
somethin'. W ith duo guitar solos,
an ex-mem her of Redd Cross and
major dislorto on die vocals, how
could O nol love it? Me? I'm a
fair-weather fan. Cool cover art
by Alan Forbes. News Hash! Mike
has quit the band! Just now! For
real! Man, thcseCal-cuLsarenuts.
Anyways, get the single, it rocks.
(Rekkids, 15592 Sandusky Lane,
Westminster, CA 92683, USA)
Oh, shit, anodier Sympathy
single. Thistimeit'sThe Muffs'
"follow-up" to their major label
album. Let's face it die Muffs are
totally amazing. It's so great that
a real pop baud from the garage
gets to play their fantastic tunes
and get paid properly for it. "Big
Moudi" is anodier Kim gem and
"Do the Robot" is a great cover
sung by drummer Criss. Does
anyone remember the Muffs performing Ihis song at the old Cruel
Elephant to DavcCarswell, Nardwuar, Paul Moes, about 4 others
and myself.' I guess not. You're
all fucked! () thinks the Muffs are
"fuckin' nice." (Sympathy).
The Fells are from Tucson
an.I Ihen new single. Fun Date, is
a full follow-up to their first two
slabs of rockin'Sonic Yule-style
rock. () loves the lead guitar. This
else do you want? (Thud World.
I 843 North Kramer. Iii. son. A/
85719. USA)'
Fiiially.tiiially.fiiially.we'll
own label, Standard. The firm is
from Radio Wendy. Right off
the bat, the packaging is amazing: made up exactly like a match
book, complete with a fold-in
cover and pictures of the band
members as matches, hand silk
screened, and all done before the
Tsunami rip-off. This stuff is
heavy rock, San Diego-sty le. You
know. Rocket From The Crypt,
Drive Like Jehu...? And no won-
Ipuli
ol
i Fluf. The wbolt
played O was following along
an acoustic guilar, so my vu
Wouldn't put it past him. (41
Sorrento Valley Blvd., San 1
Ihis
>, CA9
I  gol all  c
, USA)
ed \
ie 16's single and saw
that ii was numbered II4 of 1000.
But then Ihe big bastard informed
me he numbered all 1 (KM) from
one to one hundred, ten times
over! This babe's a one sided
single of young guys who have
skate-rock. Big-bottom noise-
rock wilh scary-ass vocals. You
got it! (16, P.O. Box 4592, Orange, C A 9261 3. USA)
lyou in August when I
> do the locals. Bye!
JULY
© GRACELAND
1250      RICHARDS      STREET
Tuesday:
PHAT GROOVE
WITH
D.J. CZECH
ALLEY ENTRANCE
REGGAE NIGHT
WITH
D.J. GEORGE BARRETT
ciiL^_______________
BACK TO BASSIX
WITH
T- BONE
ALLEY ENTRANCE
~^--_{____________^
WILD CHERRY
WITH
D.J. CZECH
CZ^Satutduy,
NOAHS ARC
WITH
D.J. NOAH
CALL FOR SPECIAL EVENT INFORMATION 688-2648 • Ubu
Boneclub
Orangutang
Commodore Ballroom
Wednesday, May 26
Pere Ubu blasted forth a long performance
to a receptive, yet sparse, audience as part of
the Imago Road Show which also featured
labelmates Orangutang and Boneclub. Poor
Orangutang probably didn't get much of a
crowd; when I arrived just as Boneclub were
about to play—let's jusl say it was a very
lonnng sel—there couldn't have been more
than 150 people in the club.
Pere Ubu (mark 1) were fairly
angst-ridden guys and some of their best
material ("Final Solution," "30 Seconds Over
Tokyo") came from the mid-70's when
the band originated as Rocket From the
Tombs land lead vox David Thomas was
known as Crocus Behemoth). This show,
however, focused on the four studio albums
of Pere Ubu (mark 2): the products ot the
band's six-year hiatus during the early 80's.
The songs can slill be deliciously-sad al
times, yel there is still a spirit of optimism
which certainly didn't exist before. With the
new release, Story Of My Life, the band
seems at ease with being a 'rock' group:
Thomas' voice is deeper and his vocals seem
less consciously quirky.
The concert opened with the first
Iwo songs from ihe new disc, "Wasted" and
"Come Home" ("I was a spy in the heart of
our home") and later Thomas humored us
with an extended version of "The Story Or
My Lite" which detailed how he looked up
his childhood sweetheart's phone number in
Ihe Toronto phone book yet backed out ot
calling. "Goodnite Irene" (not the standard i
had me humming "driven like the will ofthe
wind" like a mantra for a solid two weeks
aftertheshowbut. sadly, the single "Kathleen"
was missing (although it was on ihe sel list
a souvenir). The oldie of ihe night was a
disappointing version of ihe audience re
quested "30 Seconds Over Tokyo" (David's
instructions lo the substitute bassisl. "play
like .hopping bombs once in awhile"!. Even
out of practice it was just too sloppy even for
an apocalyptic tune as this.
The Voice on the Wire
T.M.C.S.
The Redenbachers
Less Than Sivilized
Dirty Black Summer
(We Be) Birthin' Cows
North Van. Rec. Center
Friday, June 4
It was Trish's (Ihe girl who puis on gigs at the
rec. center) birthday party so to celebrate she
had five "juvenile punk rock bands" play.
The first band certainly wasn't whal I was
expecting. (We Be) Birthin' Cows sound like
the Butthole Surfers with Henry Rollins singing and it they rock! Their lead singer, the
infamous Wozzle, even had tue Rollins tattoos drawn on his chest. They ended iheir set
with a ten minute feedback session and the
sacrifice of a bright orange plastic pig. 1 don't
know how to describe these guys but I overheard someone say lhat ihey had "the
Coquitlam sound," whatever lhat is. Check
Ihem oul if you have a chance.
Dirty Black Summer is the definition of juvenile punk. They all look about
twelve years old and were pretty cool. Old
Skull look out!
mm •   .....   »•• I •*• •• I*-**   *.••«•••••••*••*•*• "___?••'
••u:;l:u!i.
••• • •.   • •
i • .    •. . .    . •   •
ir -Uf
• •    ....      •■••   • «» ••§•»•      ••• •*.;■•
• •« .   ••   ••» ••     •   ••*•    *       •••#-"■•**•• *
>••••   ...••••.•.•»•••»•*••     »•••          ••••...
>••••.•••« 71.•  <*-m  __•__?•• •t_L_.#ll-1   _-!"?.:        ...
>«•»• T   ■ j. ■ ■    ■ ■!   n **"* ~       •*■»•*-•*•••    •*•    ■■••• ' * *
.:%•■•• \;jft!*rj;ur%#.1^_^Mj:.:^s .•••-.
••»••     • •    •
••  • •   «»
• ••••••__   •«•••   •>*—»•*'   • _•• • — •—»••>»•*._*•#«*>•»•«
t*S,».v3 ••#••••••  • •••    ••• •**»••-mb*******    •
im^T_-^n^HffWlintflffrh'*1riB!fll
Less Than Sivilized was quite
an oddity. One minut- Ihey played complete thrash and the next they played Engine
Kid-ish stuff. Their first singer (Ihey
switched singers halfway through ihe sell
was sensitive but slill very intense. However, the second singer reminded me of GG
Allin. I'm looking forward to seeing ihem
I can'l remember much about
the Redenbachers
Whal can you say about a band
thai has a song aboul hiving sex with your
relatives'The chorus goes something like.
"Incest! In or oul of bed' Incest' My sister
gives good head!" T.M.C.S. have the juvenile pan down, although I'll have to admit
lhat I liked ihem a bit. Okay. 1 liked them a
lot. T.M C S. is one of the funnest bands
I'v.
night. Since I had never heard of any of Ihe
bands before I was surprised by their quality. Almost as entertaining as the bands
inside was the heated argument about riot
grrls thai Kim Kinakin from Sparkmarker
and Jody from Strain were having out front.
Fun for the whole family.
Craig Tretiak
Ginger
Town Pump
Saturday, June 12th
My breathing pattern fractured when word
of a Ginger performance firs! broke, feeding a growing anticipation that had begun
October 30*. I992 (the final Grapes of
Wrath perlirmance). The first glimpse of
their poster—swirls of purple and white,
power-stapled high above a rainbow of urban grafitti caused a tremor from within.
And although I hit a yellow light al Friday's
show by encountering the iwo most feared
words in a concert-goer's vocabulary.
"SOI.1) <HT." Saturday'- beted were purchased al sunnseand things began lo roll.
Many quesHons were alvund: Wouid
Ihey play any Grapes of Wrath songs'.' If so.
would Tom jusl perform ihe songs he wrole?
lit would be kind of sacreligous lo sing any
of Kevin's lyrics.> Would ihese "new members" be any good'.' And would Vincent .ul
his lovely locks again '.''''The answers pro veil
positive in all instances, although Ihis was
very unfortunate for (he latter, despite the
fad that I won 10 bucks on il.
Ihe crowd was visually leased with a
coloured kaleidoscope of projections on the
back wall until, finally. Ginger sauntered,
beer m hand, on to the stage. Vincent Jones'
previouslyback-cornered key boards had now
leapt fronl and cenlre slage. making il quite
evident lhat he achieved quite an advantage
from the break-up of the Grapes of Wrath
and saw Kevin Kane "leave" Ihe band in late
October (Which I slill think was caused by
Kevin's obnoxious scowl in the opening
credits to their compilation video. 77io'c
Days). Contrary lo his banter. "I finally got
a mike, but I don'l know what to say."
Vincent burst inlothespotlighlsinging backup, playing guitar and. generally, being a
strong frontal presence.
Tom Hooper til easily into his new
role, which he had apparently been rehearsing for in his lasl two years with the Grapes.
He appeared more confident and chatted
easily with the audience, going beyond his
standard. "Gee. thanks guys."
Day plav
n step m
ex-Men
ind gum
Sean Ashby (who would have l'il perfectly
inlo the hair-full Grapes circa Now and
Ayuiin. Ashby drew a lol of attention from
Vincent who kept his eyes on Ashby more
lhan Ins own work, almost as if he was
worried that ihe "new guy" would luck up
Ginger's potential is large. Their new
material is catchy, rocky, environmental
(cursing Tom's big station wagon) and quile
moving al limes. Mosl of the concert was
kept on a mellow track but it worked. The
audience was patient and attentively enraptured. And when ihe blond bimbo wilh ihe
martinis stopped handing me glasses lo store
for her. I really enjoyed this show. Afterwards. 1 jumped for that souvenir poster,
highabove. but only managed asmallsheared
Kelowna Vincent
Bughouse Five
The Railway Club
Saturday, June 12th/Sunday,
June13th
Rockabilly music is one of those forms of
music lhal often gets called derivative. But.
whatever you call it ;ind in ihe end. no
matter whal kind of music you're listening
to- as long as it's done well and wilh some
guts, it doesn't mailer what you call it. This
brings me lo local stompers Bughouse 5.
The intimate, make lhal postage
stamp-sized, dance floor of the RailwayClub
allowed for ihe good sized crowd to stomp
away while the group wailed llirough a lot of
songs from the ir latest CD Solid!, well worth
picking up I might add i. The Bughouse Five
make for a high-spirited live show too. with
ihe sounds ot Taylor Nelson-Little'9 punchy
drums. Ihe holler of the dapper Butch
Murphy, and twanging stand-up bassman
Ronnie Hayward working the crowd This
makes a contrast to the laid-back slage presence of guitarist Russ Schindel whose attack
comes from his ferocious pig-in-hcal guilar
playing. Kit together, when it's going strong.
can gel the Bughouse five's music received
lo the poinl ot frenzy
Understandably. Ihe Saturday
cTowd was bigger than the Sunday audience
But. hell. I had a good weekend Check these
A.O. Chapman
June28-29   JOHNY NOCTURNE
June 30-July 1    SNOOKY PRYOR w/
THE DEMONS
July2-3   LAZY LESTER w/ THE DEMONS
July4   FENTON ROBINSON
July 6-10 HARPDOG BROWN
July 13-17   SUNNY FONIERRE
July 20-24  T.B.A.
July27-31   WILLY SMOKY LOGG & THE
FLAMETHROWERS
mmmumsMS:
SATURDAY 3-8 PM / SUNDAY BLUES MARATHON JAM 3PM - MIDNIGHT
JACK LA VIN'S JAMS ARE SPONSORED BY MOTHER'S MUSIC AND THE DRUM SHOP
OPEN EACH NIGHT FROM 9:30 PM T01:30 AM OPEN WEEKDAYS FROM 11:30 AM
© MONSTER MAGNET
Superjudge
(A&M)
Superjudge ia fused with riffs Tony
I. mum wasslogging oul twenty years
ago. Theae greasy guitar and vocal
.•Heels that .lied wilh Blue Cheer are
riddled with lyrics .so silly lhal O/.zy
himself would.surely recoil. WiUioul
a doubt llus il Ihe chccsiesl rock
record I have heard in a coon's age
The cheese is laid un so thick, in fact,
lhat it makes me think Monster
Magnet know full well lhal Ihey are
rocking very close lo the Spinal Tap
void. Yel, as with most things
involving cheese, Superjudge has a
richly satisfying pleasure Copious
drug use remain as a central llienie i n
songs 011 Superjudge and, not
surprisingly, Ihis record is best
listened lo when you're drunk and/
toned.
Sean Harvey
PERE UBU
Story of My Life
(Imago/BMG)
On.
business is lhal Ihe longer you're in
il Ihe harder il is lo sell yourself; m:
mailer how good you a, .Make,,.:
mistake, Story of My Life is a go.xl
and accomplished l'ere I dm album.
as. Jones, Maimoiie <fc
sshave been al il lor years. The
first oftheir records had an original
intensity lluil supplied a soundtrack
to the quirky. Like then peers the
Talking Heads. Pere Ubu,
|>erfected dieir jive, peaked, Uien
slid steadily inlo musical purgatory.
Nol due lo a sellout, it's jusl that
whal Pere Ubu do (and do well)
isn't all lhat interesting anymore.
The worst thing thai can befall an
artist is dial he/she perfects his/her
craft.
TRUMANS WATER
Spasm Smash XXXOXOXOX
And Ass
(Homestead Records)
"diey said 'our youth was dead' how
could diey know" screams Glen
Galloway on die first track in his
consistently strained vocal style.
From dus kick-ass operu ng the band
doesn't let up once, systematically
crushing through another 19 songs.
Spasm Smash totally describes
Trumans Water's sound; in their
unpredictably, raging, start-stop
spasms are hooks and freaky
experimentation Uiat will get your
adrenaline flowing. At first this
barrage of half-crazed, breakneck
ins slightly dark and
menacing, bul afler a few more
listenings it locks in on your nund
and grooves Ihe exception being
the last two instrumental tracks
which are immediately revealed in
all   their  crazy,   super  catchy
Max
PJ HARVEY
Rid of Me
(Island)
Polly lean I larvey's music is not for
diose who are weak at heart, bul if
you dare lo lake risks you shall be
rewarded greatly. Her style of
undiluted rock& roll islikeabucket
of fuming chemicals, ready to
explode at any time. Most of
Harvey's songs deal wilh anger,
confusion and obsessive love, and I
would therefore probably relate if I
wa.s slightly more screwed up dian I
am now. However, the music alone
moves me: her singing moves from
a murmur lo a scream in a fraction of
Each track on Rid of Me stands
on its own, making it hard to pick out
a favourite since diey are all worthy
ofrepeatedlistenings Ihaveafeeling
that PJ Harvey will be just as
influential as Joni Mitchell or even
Bob Dylan.
Vince Yeh
she
nile, ilk-
next, crazy and
angry; Harvey's guitar proli.
reminding me of older blues guitar
players.
GGFH
Disease
(Cargo Records)
The problem With industrial music
is tliat il all walks a line line between
being electrifying cool and
unhelievahlystupid. Il is.surprisingly
difficult to get away widi wearing
all black, singing aboul robots, death
and religion while sampling dozens
of not-so-great lines from cheezy
movies. Every now and then one of
these industrial outfits goes over the
deep end.
GGFH tries too damn hard to
scare you widi spooky album art and
grim, raspy pseudo-rap on its album
Disease—a collection of songs about
such light topics as rape, murder,
sin. and cannibalism. Taken
individually, tracks like "Room 213"
or "Flesh" are quite:solid, even good,
bul as a collection it quickly becomes
just plain silly. Disease is infected
leknes
.: the
duslrial albums is located ten
alter the lasl official track
on the album (ooo, surprise), movie
and TV samples are rampant and
usually unnecessary, and Ihe list goes
on. While Disease is not a complete
tnlessyou're in need..1
Pigpen has been likened to Ornette
Coleman mixed widi Nirvana and
that's not surprising as keyboardist
Wayne Horvitz, who has worked
widi John Zorn, is involved. Pigpen
is ostensibly a jazz-rock fusion but
don't expect any bad '70's sounds,
this 20-minute CD clips along quite
pleasantly: die brief cover of Zorn's
"Revolution/Revelation" moves
from hardcore to traditional jazz with
an alto sax transition and Public
Enemy samples. If, however, you
are looking for a musical challenge
check out Hal Willner's compilation
tribute to Charlie Mingus, Weird
Nightmares, featuring the likes of
Chuck D, Leonard Cohen and, of
course, John Zorn.
June Scudeler
BIKINI KILL/HUGGY BEAR
split LP
(Kill Rock Stars)
Bikini Kill continues to pump out
their vein of angry, raw, trashy punk
with this rough recording (actually
adding power to die music) but I
didn't find the songs to be as
engaging a.s those from tlieir demo.
I much preferred the Huggy Bear
side wliich consists of a finely
balanced selection of songs, ranging
from hard-driving grungey punk to
noisier weirdness, widi well placed
elements of pop roving in and oul of
the songs where necessary.
Tom Milne
APHEX TWIN
Selected Ambient Works
'85-'92
(R + S Records)
POLYGON WINDOW
Surfing on Sine Waves
(Warp Records)
A friend phoned during my radio
Aphe
Hi.
oduct
year-old
Londoner. RichardJaiues. However,
li was still a few montlis later, after
dul dully searching for what I didn't
think I would find, before I actually
dliis
led in
•rlhc
,1 Apl.
.1 Polyg.
a good laugh.
I  was doing  the club thing
Gustav
recently when the name Polygon
Window inched its way across die
PIGPEN
LED message hoard. I immediately
Halfrack
perked up knowing dial Polygon
(Tim/Kerr Records)
W.ndow    was    related    to    the
This EP could bes
be des
cribed as
jazz for people w!
, don't
like jazz.
the  pounding beat  with  varying
percussion that was "Quoth." It
was the fat, warm sound of
analogue instead of the cold,
pristine sound of digital
electronics that made this song
stand out. According to an April
'93 interview m Alternative Press
magazine, James "gets an idea
from outside sounds or a noise,
and will sample i» and play with
it. This may not seem like a novel
idea to devotees of Non or
Neubauten, but few in the techno
arena have explored the
boundaries of sampling as the
Aphex Twin has."
"Didgeridoo," which il not
on Ambient Works, was James'
first release and garnered a lot of
attention. It's a strange one for a
dance floor hit, incorporating
manipulations of an already
strange soundi ng instrument with
very little beat to it, but its
uniqueness is its strength. Ambient
Works washes over you and
makes you feel as if you're
floating underwater while strange
sonar blips bounce around you.
Tlie only down-side to Ambient
Works is that if you're an
apartment dweller like me, die
subsonic bass on some of the
tracks can't really be turned up
widiout the neighbours hating
you.   A  uniformly  excellent
Polygon Window's Surfing
on Sine Waves is a bit more upbeat
and il does contain the
magnificent "Quoth.' The
untitled track is one of my faves:
a deep, dissonant bass line is
contrasted with what sounds like
a Canadian goose being tortured.
Again, not to be missed.
Unfortunately, since Warp
Records is in England and R + S
is in Belgium diese are very
expensive. On the plus side,
Richard.lames has.started hisown
label and is looking for demos.
He also has a mail order service:
Rephlex Records, P.O. Box 2676,
London, Nil. England.
June Scudeler
PIGFACE
Washingmachinemouth
(Invisible Records)
Pigface's latest outing is a perfect
example of what die band is all
experii
Washii
i, inn,
nilh
comprised mostly ofremixes from
Fook widi die addition of a new
track called "Cutting Face."
Included are a 10-iuinute, really
swell remix of "Hips, Tits, Lips
Power" (where it kinda samples
itself thru and thru), called "Satan
On Tlie Inside L.xiking In." and a
toned-down version of "Satellite."
This isn't for industrial fan
wannabes, it's for those who really
iu not talking ..bout
>. fm
that km
When one thinks of all the
industrial giants conung logedier
and forming an amalgamation
called Pigface, with dandy album
names like Gub, Spoon, etal., you
really don't know what to expect.
If anti-expectations are for you
then Washmgnuuhinemouth is
perfect. Make sense? Neidier did
the album, but I liked it.
Trip
26 h>:rJKe;a^^ the cruel elephant
concert productions^
presents
Greetings and salutations, loyal reader types! I
was going to do a rundown ofthe two new money-
grabbing music formats (DCC and Mini-disc) and
give you my spin on 'em but, gash, I just got a big
pile of rekkids from all over the place I Thusly, and
ergo, I felt I couldn't put off mentioning them a
month from now. I'm getting more and more
strange 'n' goofy platters from you out there these
days, so I gotta tell you about them before a bigger
pile develops. So now I'm gonna subject you to a
Psyschosonic Psuperselection! You have been
warned.
The first volley comes courtesy of Paul
Brooks, editor and disciplinarian of this li'lol'rag:
The Treeclimbers -4-song EP (larkin Reccxds)
Not my typical fare, this EP goes in tbe "best left
forgotten by all concerned" dept. The key figure
on this is the presence of Sub Pop god, Johnathan
Poneman, a co-conspirator in the whopping heavy
cross we have had to bear called the "Seattle
Sound." Not that you'd believe it by listening to
this treacherously heinous soft-pop slop the Treeclimbers dole out (remember China Crisis or
Wang Chung and you know what I mean!).
Poneman would probably really like to forget he
played bass on this.
Cheezability Rating: Curiosity piece only. Do
not play
MT MELANCHOLY BABY
SIDE Bt SlOt $ LAST NIGHT ON THE fflRTpORCH fj) BEAUTIFUL OHIO
THE TRAIL OF THE LONESOME PINE I LOVE MY BABY WAGON WHEELS
THAT'S MY WEAKNESS NOW fYtS: Wf HAVE Nn BANANA f INDIANA
THE PRISONERS SONG f IF YOU KNEW SUSIE f ANNIVERSARY SONG
IMY BOUND f WHERE DC YOU WORK / ■*""
COLLEGIATE f ALABAMY
- Tony Orlando & Dawn
Golden Ribbons -
(Bell)
It's Dawn, man! Do I need to say any more?
Cheezability Rating: Off the scale.
The next slab comes from Mark Coulavin
from the 65th most expensive place to Uve on this
Earth, Tronna, Ont:
Plant Music — Baroque Bouquet (Amherst)
Another addition to the ever-expanding "plant
growth" genre of music. Plant Music takes the
scientific tack on the liner notes, explaining the
history in high-falutin' jargon Uke this:
"Response to Bach and Shankar musical
forms is evident in all experiments we 've read.
Response away from percussion and also from
non-;nathematical and extremely simple musical
forms (acid rock) is equally evident." They follow
this lofty stuff with the usual plant-theme titles
you'd expect. The music is this light, fluffy, pseudo-classical, pre-new age twaddle that's supposed
to make yer tendrils turgid I don't know if this
theory works, all I know is my plants wilt when I
throw on Killdozer!
Cheezability Rating: 88 (+ 5 for flake appeal)
Coming from kinda queasy Prince George,
the next few are from the ever-patient Sara (Christ!
I can't find her last name! Boy will she be pissed!).
Give her a hand, folks, she sent me about a half of
a dozen albums!
Music For Your Plants - ? (Carmel Records)
Same type of stuff as the last one, with the added
bonus of photos. Once again, it's pro-classical and
anti-rock but the music is better, using known
pieces instead of loopy stuff.
Cheezability Rating: 90
Happy Times — Mitch Miller & The Gang
(Columbia)
Happy times, indeed, when Mitch & the Gang kick
it out! Sing-a-long oldies and traditionals in true
Mitch style. Comes with a dozen ditties and about
6 sets of lyrics for the whole posse to groove with!
Sara, how could you give this up? (Phun Phact!!
R.D. Harrison informs me Miller was A&R chief
for Columbia in the '50s. I think all A&R people
model themselves after this guy.)
Cheezability Rating: 100
Naljrwaj Mnje Wodotschku 7" — Ivan Rebroff
(CBS)
Ivan is the Slavic male equivalent to Nana
Mouskouri. I don't know what country he comes
from but they don't use a whole lotta vowels there.
How do you pronounce "Mnje"? Anyways, this
tune about drinking is way cool—delivered in his
patented Sensurround baritone voice. Comes with
cool picture sleeve and a mini-discography.
Cheezability Rating: 90
Sounds Sensational — The Mike Samms
Singers (EMI - Studio 2 Stereo)
This one goes straight to the Hall o' Shame, do not
pass go! This is the sort of music you'd expect from
a chase scene in a '60's European comedy or
something!! Crazy vocal group meandering by
some of the whitest people in the world, this one
has to be heard to be believed! I
Cheezability Rating: 100
And well finish up with a few contributions
from my own bad self:
The Six Million Dollar Man, Volumes 1 A 2
(Peter Pan)
A whole wacko' stories about Ixe Major's tour de
force of the '70s: Steve Austin. Each LP has four
way-cool stories with pretty good imitations of
Austin and Goldman. Best part: they include the
ultra neat "buh-buh-buh-buh" sound Austin makes
when he uses his bionic eye!! Also contains a lot
of reaUty stretching and cheezy dialogue. Can't
figure out why record one is about a quarter inch
thick, though.
Cheezability Rating: 100
Our Country 'Tis of Thee — A bunch of
Americans, I guess (Peter Pan)
Just got this one in time for the USA self love-in.
This is a musical history of the US complete with
annoying singing kids. Oddly enough, they
mention the New Deal but seem to have forgotten
the civil war, slavery and the two world wars.
Anyone surprised?
Cheezability Rating: 80
I got both- of the above at the Kingsway flea
market for about 50 cents. They have many copies
and, no, they didn't pay me to plug them!
South ofthe Border Volume 2—The 50 Guitars
of Tommy Garrett (London)
The legendary 50 axes do it one more time to
Mexico! Superconductor's mentors come up with
the usual high quality, cutaway folding sleeve and
Ump music inside. This is the guy that produced
Telly, so look out for any LPs from this series for
overwhelming cheeziness!!
Cheezability Rating: 84
Well, that's my load for now. A big fat thanx
to all you hipsters who donated vi ny 1.1 Tl send you
cool stuff in a few weeks!!! Keep the stuff coining
and don't forget about the Psamplers, volumes 1
& 2, which can be yours for a paltry $ 10 (for both).
The address? Why, it's:
Hey Mofo!
2054 E. Broadway
Vancouver, BC
V5N1W7
JULY
© JULY   93
LONG   VIN
YL 50
1  ERIC STRIP
SONGS ABOUT CHRIS
SUBPOP
2 SHADOWY MEN
SPORT FISHIN
CARGO
3 THE 5.6.7.8'S
CANT HELP IT!
ROCKVILLE
4 THE MUFFS
THE MUFFS
WARNER
5 SUPERSNAZZ
SUPERSTUPID
SUBPOP
6 MERCURY REV
BOCES
COLUMBIA
7 THE CRANES
FOREVER
RCA
8 THE POSIES
FROSTING ON THE BEATER
GEFFEN
0 UNREST
ISABEL BISHOP
4AD
10 THE TEAR GARDEN
SHEILA LIKED THE RODEO
NETTWERK
11  FRONT 242
UP EVIL
EPIC
12 PJ HARVEY
RID OF ME
aAND
13 VARIOUS ARTISTS
STARS KILL ROCK
KILL ROCK STARS
14 STOMPIN' TOM
KIC ALONG WITH.
EMI
15 DICK DALE
TRIBAL THUNDER
HIGHTONE
16 SEBADOH
BUBBLE AND SCRAPE
SUB  POP
17 SUGAR
BEASTER
RYKODISC
18 ACTION SWINGERS
DECIMATION BLVD
CAROLINE
IS SMUGGLERS
WET PANTS CLUB
RADIATION
20 DILLON FENCE
OUTSIDE IN
MAMMOTH
21  NEGATIVLAND
FREE
SEELAND
22 PEACE, LOVE. AND PITBULLS
PEACE. LOVE. AND PITBULLS
NETTWERK
23 HYPNOLOVEWHEEL
ALTERED STATES
ALIAS
24 THE PRODIGY
EXPERIENCE
POLYGRAM
25 REVEREND HORTON HEAT
FULL CUSTOM GOSPEL SOUDS OF       SUB POP
26 FRANK BLACK
FRANK BLACK
4AD
27 SUPERCHUNK
ON THE MOUTH
MATADOR
28 NUMB
DEATH ON THE INSTALLMENT
RE CONSTRICTION
29 SHINE
SON RAISE
NEXTUP
30 THE FALL
KIMBLE                                     D
UTCH  EAST   INDIA
31  WALT MINK
BAREBACK RIDE
CAROLINE
32 URGEOVERWU
33 RADIOHEAD
34 BK_DRILCAR
35 PRIMUS
36 HUGGY BEAR/BIKINI KILL
37 STEEL POLE BATHTUB
38 PIGFACE
38 DAEVID ALLEN AND KRAMER
40 VARIOUS ARTISTS
41 BOBS YOUR UNCLE
42 GIIRL TROUBLE
43 TRUMANS WATER
44 GURU
45 12 MIDNITE
46 DOUBLE XX POSSE
47 NEW ORDER
48 REDSUGAR
40 RANCID
50 TANGERINE DREAM
GEFFEN
SATURATION
PABLO HONEY
TOURED HEADHUNTER
PORK SODA INTERSCOPE
OUR TROUBLED YOUTH/YEAH KILL ROCKSTARS
THE MIRACLE OF SOUND IN MOTION
WASHINGMACHINE MOUTH
WHO'S AFRAID? S
RIVET HEAD CULTURE
CAGES
NEW AMERICAN SHAME
SPASM SMASH XXXOXOX
JAZZMATAZZ
GUNLAND
PUT YA BOOTS ON
REPUBLIC
MEDICINE
RANCID
LT UVE
ZULU
EMPTY
HOMESTEAD
EMI
GUNLAND
BIG  BEAT
WARNER
CHIKARA
EPI
MIRAMAR
JULY   93   ,
MUKT   V
NTL   .5
1   SPARKMARKER
PLUG
SELFLESS
2  THE SNEETCHES
AND I'M THINKING T
BUS STOP
3 CUB
HOT DOG DAY
MINT
4 THE DICKIES
ROADKILL T
DICKIES
5  SICKO
COUNT ME OUT T
EMPTY
6  BRAND NEW UNIT
SUMMERTIME/ DEEP INSIDE
3 MINUTE MILE
7  TIGER TRAP
SUPERCRUSH T
K
8  TSUNAMI
IN A NAME/ NOT LIVING
SIMPLE MACHINES
0  ROCKET FROM THE CRYPT
PIGEON EATER T
MERGE
10  THE CAROLINE KNOW
NAIL/ ORPHAN TOO
BUS STOP
11   THEEARTHMEN
COOL CHICK *59/MOMENTUM      SLUMBERLAND
12  RAGE AGAINST THE MACHINE
BULLET IN THE HEAD T
EPIC
13 THE ROPERS
SUNBATHE 7'
SLUMBERLAND
14 VERTIGO/ COSMIC PSYCHOS
YOU GET NOTHING/ GARBAGE ROCK             HIPPY
15  ARCHERS OF LOAF
WEB IN FRONT/ BATHROOM
ALIAS
16   68 COMEBACK
YOU COULD CALL ME JOB 7
SUBPOP
17   BUM
YOUR DISCIPLE/ WEEKEND 7
AUGOGO
18 JALE
1 LIED/TWISTED
CINNAMONTOAST
10 THE MCTELLS
CLEAN/ IT'S HAPPENING
K
20  CORNDOLLY
HUMAN CANNONBALL
MUD
21   HUM
SUNDRESS/ TIME IS MELTING
MUD
22  ST. JOHNNY
GO TO SLEEP T
AJAX
23  STAND GT
TOASTING GEARS T
EN GUARD
24  SUNNY DAY REAL ESTATE
FLATLAND SPIDERS 7*
ONE DAY 1 STOPPED
25 LANDFILL
SUNSET HILLS 7*
PLUMB
26 PEACH
PINWHEELS/ SMART WENT CRAZY          SYLVIA
27  THE NUTHINS
ALLERGIC KISS/COLOUR TRIP MERRY GO-ROUND
28 ASEXUALS
LOVE GOES PLAID 7"
ROUGH TRADE
20 THE WORST
TUNES FROM THE TOMB
SCREAMING APPLE
30  VERONICA LAKE
THE MAN WHO WAS NOT WITH IT       BUS STOP
31   RED BUG
BLUE LIGHT SPECIAL 7*
CANNED CORN
32 JIVE BUBBLE
FISH FARMER 7"
K0K0P0P
33 GIRLS AGAINST BOYS
BULLETPROOF CURD 7"
TOUCH AND GO
34 FINGER
GRAVITATIN'7"
RADIATION
35 GHETTO SCHIEST
ANTFACE 7"              SCHEMING INTELLIGENTSIA
ULY   S3   INI
HE   HOME   JOBS
1 JOEYCHEEZHEE
WHAT SWEET CHILD O MINE IS THIS
2 SINEATER
SOME  MONDAY
3 WINDWALKER
KNIGHT  MOVES
4 THE REAL MCKENZIES
1 AM A SCOT
5 TERROR T   TRUE
TO   THE   GAME
6 WINGNUTS
1 HATE MY JOB
7 TOE LIQUOR
SYLVIA
• GREEN APPLE QUICKSTEP
SHIFTING
» THE PRISONERS
SEXY HE AINT
10 STRAIN
CATARACT
11 DEPROGRAMMERS
WASH YOUR  BRAIN
12 LEATHER UPPERS
1 DON'T LIKE YOU
13 ROSMARIE LINAV
ISLAND LULLABY
14 FIXTURES
WINNEBAGO WARRIOR
15 NGOMA
FEAR
16 THE SPIDERS
NO  EXPECTATIONS
17 TOUCH N'GOES
GOOD MORNING MIDNIGHT
IB SICKO
FB  SONG
1» SURFDUSTERS
HEADLESS BATTALLION
20 HONEY
PILLOW   KNIVES
21 THE TEXAS VAMPS
HATE FACTORY
22 TTHE LOTUS EATERS
GOD
23 THE FAMILY
CIELO  DR
24 WRETCHED ETHYL
NOTHING TOO DEEP
25 FIELD DAY
PET
2« MOVIELAND
CAKE
27 FACE PLANT INC.
DEER ON  MY BUMPER
2B BATES MOTEL
LEARNING TO DANCE
2» BLAISE PASCAL
SPOTLIGHT WDD
30 CRAWL
NO  LIES
31 MEET DAISY
GO GO ROUND
32 BIG TALL GARDEN
NEW   TOMORROW
33 MOIST
BELIEVE  ME
34 CLODHOPPER
SWEET MEMORIES
35 ANNIE LANE
HE'LL FIND HER
DOYOU REMEMBER ROCK'N'ROLL RADIO?
DISCORDER CHARTS 10 YEARS AGO.
1 NEW ORDER
2 VIOLENT FEMMES
3 SPEAR OF DESTINY
4 HEAVEN 17
5 YELLO
6 BILL NELSON
7 PYLON
8 GUN CLUB
0 CLINT EASTWOOD & GENERAL SAINT
10 SHRIEKBACK
POWER, CORRUPTION 4 LIES
VIOLENTFEMMES
GRAPES OF WRATH
THE LUXURY GAP
YOU   GOTTA   SAY  YES...
CHIMERA
CHOMP
DEATH PARTY EP
STOP THAT TRAIN
CARE
AT ZULU, TRACK, AND BOOM CD'S OR BY MAIL FROM INTERNATIONAL
STYMIE
RIKKI TIKKI TAVI
TEN  POUND  BAG
PIG ON FIRE
RHINO   HUMPERS
FUDD
KATIES   DIMPLES
WINDWALKER
KILL  SYBIL
SEND $10 US ($12 CDN.yCD
OR $7 US ($9 CDN.yCASS
CHOICE BOVINE CUTS     ^S^ppd
BOVINE PROPHETS RECORDS  P.O. BOX 5738 KENT, WA 98064
M"Et_s__-Sza2_ir.3i
halleluhah GOOD NEWS!!!
LORD OF
LORDS!
FREE SNOT OF JESUS
BOOGERS OF OUR LORD & MESSIAH
SCIENTIFIC FACT! ^ BIBLICAL PROOF
JESUS
"CHRIST"
SCIENCE PROVEN! ^*» SCRIPTURAL PROOF!
SEND FIVE DOLLAR LOVE GIFT TO
INTERNATIONAL SECULAR ATAVISM
IN CANADA; P.O. BOX 1776 STN.'A" VANCOUVER, B.C. V6C-2P7
IN U.S.A.: P.O. BOX 69243, PORTLAND,   OREGON, 97201
5_-* ^7>(*^ <_fc_s-*_> (^KrM^
f SCIENTIFIC FACT1 SCIEN-TERRRIFFIC FACT!!! SCIENCE PROVEN^
FOR FREE STICKERS OF THIS AD SEND A S.A.S.E. .   rtel  .' ■,-.:■ i.kap
'■
2t MON Fat Man Waving at the Town Pump Kootenay Loopat the Anza Club
Kathy Kidd & Kongo Mambo Tno at Community Arts Council Alternative Night
at the Pit Pod Kathy Kidd & Kongo Mamba Trio at Community Arts Council.
Vancouver International Jazz Festival: Sonny Rollins at the Commodore,
Abdullah Ibrahm at Vancouver East Cultural Centre. Steve Lacy & Horace
Tapscott at the Western Front, Glen Valez & Ned Rothenberg, Jay Claton/Jim
Knapp Collective and Lerny/Roy Quartet at the Pitt Gallery, TO Trio at Alma
Street Cafe. Johnny Nocturne at the Yale. Alligator Joy and Free F'AII at the
Glass Slipper, PJ Perry Quintet at Hollywood North. Bernie McGann Trio at
Granville Island Market Stage (12pm. tree); Kate Hammett Vo. jqI
ance Works (3pm. free), Henry Young Trio it
Blair Lewis & Out of the Woods ot  oncouvaJM|B^HlHBWBB
Visions of Light: The Art of Cinematography C7 30poJ ond Damned in the USA
& Blue (9 25pm) at the Ridge Jewish Film Festivd; Get Thee Out;
Pacific Gnematheaue Wait Unfit Dork c
History Photography (works';.:
29 TUF. Lotus Eaters ot tre I own Pump- Pock Night of 'he Pi! Pud. Cruel '70;
Disco at the Commodore   Parliamehf/FunkadeHc *
Eye   Vancouver International Jazz Festivol Lorraine Desmarafs Quartet .r
Vancouver East Cult jral Centre Wayne HOfvttz Trio a'
Elmes Quintet with Ed. Bictert at Perfabonce Works. Jerome Harris Quintet
and Bernie McGann Trio at the Pitt. Jenrrf%|be||**t A -
Nocturne at the Yale, Kwiatkowski/Vaugrv :-
and Coat Cooke & the ^0m at the Gld^^THoilYWOOd North Jo?/
Orchestra at Hollywood..'ifferfh. Trtoat Dynamics
Stage (12pm. free). Jim Pihchm Sextet at Performar
Avenue at Pacific CentrePtaza (12jbm. free) Daryl Joir
Public Aquanum (530cm free; Visions of Light '■!.■ "-rt of Cinematography
(730pm) and Damned in the USA & Bluef%c-    :: ">3 R.age  Steven
Hawking lecture af the Orpheum., You're a Gocfc) Man. Charlie Brown (Spm)
30 WED New Model .Army .vith l< •■ Ld Alteyne-Johnson
at the Town Pump Hot Wednesday at The Pit Pub Leonard Cohen at the
Orpheum Vancouver International Jazzfestivatjuck & Patti.-. th Andalaus it
the Commoaore. Randy Weston" t Eos' > tk on '
NYCs cooler Village v. >ices Robyn.Holcomband 9-AM at Western front.' Brod
Turner Quintet at Performance Woiks Ned Rothenberg's Double Band and
Wayne Horvitz 8c Pigpen at the Pitt; Celso Machado at Alma Stre<
Brown Qlk ii holas at the Yale, Jjfentatfe*-
Scott at Hotel Georgia Maya and T r ibal Dynamics at the Glass Slipper George
Robert Quintet at Hollywood North, Tin Sandwich at Granville Iskrd Market
Stage (12pm, free), Bill Clark Sextet at Performance Works (3pm. free), Henry
Boudin Quartet at Pacific Centre Plaza (12pm. free); Renee Doruytef at,
Vancouver Public Aquarium (5:30pm, free) Pursuit of Happiness withfeope-
Love & Guitars at the Backstage (Seattle),.. Visions of Light: The Art of Cinematography (7:30pm) ond Damned in the USA & Blue (925pm) at tt^JJfcJgS..!
Bang, Bang. Bang;NorthwestFilm& Video Festival Tour at Pacific Cir.— ^theqje
(7:30pm) Wait Until Dark at Dorothy Somerset Studio...
1 THU Canada Day Party with Barenaked Ladies. Violent Femmes, Spirit of the
West. Sarah McLachlan. Ned's Atomic Dustbin, The \
Moxy Fruvous, Coal, Cub. Huevos Rancheros, Moist
Stadium (lpm). Reclaiming the Sacred with Stc
couver International Jazz Festival Betty Carter with]
the Commodore; Mulgrew Miller/Kenny Garrett
couver East Cultural Centre, Genevieve Letarte
Steve Holt Quartet at Performance Works; Joint Venture with
Trio at the Pitt; Roy Reynolds Quartet at Alma Street Cafe, Martin Frc
at Isadora's; Snooky Pryor/John Nicholas at the Yale, Linton Gan
Hotel Georgia. Celtic Works and Bruce Freedman Quartet at the Glass
Miles Black Quartet at Hollywood North (930pm), Clyde Reed
Granville Island Market Stage (12pm, free), Mike Zilber Trio at Perf<
Works (3pm, free); featuring CiTR's own Gavin Walker it's the
Quartet at Pacific Centre Plaza (12pm, free). Above Gr<
Public Aquarium (5:30pm, free).. Visions of Light: The Art
(730pm) and Damned in the USA & Blue (925pm)at the Ri<
Bang: Northwest Film & Video Festival Tour at Pacific Cinematl
FRI 2 The Falcons surf night with the Surfdusters at the Railway
International Jazz Festival Khaled ond Gypsalero at the Cc
Frishberg with The Westbrook Trio at Vancouver East Culturd Centre. Joe
McPhee, Lisle Ellis, Donald Robinson and EDAM at Western Froftl B .
Performance Works,- Cluson Trio and Kane/Taylor Explosion of the Pitt- Floyd
Standifer Quartet at Alma Street Cafe, Art Ellefson & Modus at Isadora^ Lazy
Lester with the Demons at the Yale; Pearl Brown Quartet o'^i'o;
Plimley Trio at the Glass Slipper. Stratochiefs at Hollywood NorttfBlery Fskeiin
Trio at Granville Island Market Stage (12pm, free), Say/Wiertz Band oi'Per form;
ance Works (3pm, free); Rimba Calzado at Pacific Centre Plaza (12pm. free).
Ray Piper Trio at Vancovuer Public Aquarium (5:30pm. free). This Boy's Life
(7:15pm) and Falling Down (9:30pm) at the Ridge... Luis Bunuel Festival: The
Discreet Charm of the Bougeoisie (730pm) and A Woman Without Love
(9:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque... Eraserhead at the Hollywood (midnight)..
CAT 3 Sway with Jim Basnight ot the Railway Club Def Leppard, Tom Cochrane.
April Wine Ugly Kid Joe. Rockhead. Sven Gali at Seabird Island. Agassiz
Vancouver International Jazz Festival Terrance Smnien & the Mallet Playboys
with Anson Funderburgh & the Rockets at the Commodore; Trio de Clarinettes
& Arcado at Vancouver East Cultural Centre. EDAM at the Western Front-,
Glenna Powrie Trio at Performance Works. Andy Lasfer's Hvdra,flB£feM__-_
Medford Quintet at the Pitt, George Robert'
Inside Outside at Isadora's; Lazy Lester_^^fejr_§J
' Hotel Georg    _.
' Clark at Van;
;:(^Opm free)   This Boy's Life (7.15pm) and Falling
i of the Ridge. Luis Bunuel Festival The Discreet Charm of the
(730pm) and A Woman Without Love (9.30pm) c
Cinematheque  Eraserhead at the H
SUN 4 Fenton Robinsai
at the Town   ;;-,'.   This Boy's Life
Ridge   Luis Bunuel Fe
-.:.-'
MON 5 Windwalker. Krevis
i'oiiway Ctob. Atternatfvt
Festival- Tom Ze with Cafe
TQiintet.)
930pm) at the Ridge Luis Bunuel Festival Tristana (730pm) and Daughter of
Deceit (9:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
SAT 17 Jazzmanian Devils at \be RoJwav rhb  Sunny Fonierre at the Yale.
Vancouver Folk Musu   I estiva! a! Jericho Park  Penelope Houston at the
i Am >ualf||^gj||gf|^pm & 9:30pm) at the
'of Deceit (9 30pm)
Festival of
i) and First
Folk Music
lot Richard's on
at the Pit Pub...
Short Films (7pm
Comes Courage
Rubber a
Bridged ■
Slipper, Moncef Genoud Ino
Mcs*e-t Stage
Dove PhyaK Quintet.:     "
Joon"* Or>    -ii..   • i. I-
r ri John Kbrsrud's Hard
ate, Chelsea
•-■o8orb-quew3t the Glass
orth. Andqkxjsaf Granvilk- Island
it Performance WOflc3$3pm tree).
n (536prTifr^):. Benny and
fe30pm) at the Ridge. Luis Bunuel
Festival Nazofih!'     ■•-.-' >pm)otl i ifie Cinematheque.
( 6 Veda H*f||trh Bones and feaWrs at the Railway Club Harpdog Brown
at tha \ ole Mjcrw ;l ONeill at the Western Front Cruel 70s Disco at the Commo
dore Benny Ond Joon < i    11' (^as Fo it the Ridge _
tito f VedaHtfe^th Bones and leathers a! th.iV.Avov Ciuo. Butthole Surfers.
Stone temple Wots. Basehead ..ind Firehose a f PNi Aquaslage.. .Harpdog
Brown of the tale  Albion Band at tfie WtSL Cub  Hot Wednesday ot the Pit
Puo NPBGaf fh<  •: - <>.;<■   eoflte). Bodies, Rest & Motion r 30pm) and
The Cook, the Thief. His Wife, and Her Lover (9 Jopm at the Ridge  Cosmic
Rays. Films by :Bruce Conner (7 3Qpm&. 9 30pii''n: !::n.!fir ( inemotheque
rHU 8 terror of Tiny Town at the Railway Qgbl PJFlarvey with Moonshake at the
Commodore..; Harpdog Brown at 'the Yole SubSonic Thursday af the Pit Pub,; ;
- lok.the Ihiof.HisWife.andHerLover
icouver Folk Music
■lesdayatthePit
ftRidge Runaway
|^HKCinemotheque.
io Club of fK |'s Welfare
■Sonic Thursday .    't^JHp|!jb   2nd Annual
m with lecture
v■:oy f.ileemWoeter■ •■ i '[•:• • iii .fie Sex- Out ot£$§§£&' (7:30pm)at
Sibikwa Pluyeis'DETBoys High  «,vi m   it Vancouver
FRI 23 Sade v
(7pm & 930
(730pm) ant
Sibikwa Playi
(11pm) at Vancouver'Fast GjHyk.il
SAT 24 Shadowy Men on a Shadowy Plr
Commodore.. Bugs Bunny Film Festivol
ii- -v
i rouble a<M Cub at the
nflB Ridge
by Street-
'Sexteen' (730pm) at Pacific Ci
fRI 9 Radiohead with Shine at thi
Danny Gotten of the B<
Ueuter
|(9#pmlp
itation o/Rf
n _ (   frosh    nSirotrq
?stoge#ai^^riee(lo^e* {hom"/. Opmjai tt« ,«*»
i Can Sinafros with L Kage o'
RahvoyClj"   tonothdftRictmonot 1       -*_>V ,ym<  Sunny Fonierre -v :■ <
Yole Hot Wedne day ot'f      tf       IP5  he Isfa  J of Po h/ jc-rms    ^cn.;
THU 15 Jozzmantqn De'-. nny Fonierre cf :h   /ate
•   ^jf^r^lhtTs_-yatthr'W^ib1*%<
The fstanrj of Pachyderms ■" i' pu,, an i Diva (9:30pm) at the Ridge.,. Dance.
Girl. Dance (730pm) and Christopher Strong (9:15pm) at Pacific Cinematheque
FRI 16 Jazzmanian Devils at the Railway Club Sunny Fonierre at the Yale.
Vancouver Folk Music Festival at Jericho Park... Nazareth at the Commodore.
Peter Gabriel at Pacific Coliseum... 2nd Annual Festival of Short Films (7pm &
Bunuel Festival: Diary of a cfemberrnaid
car (9.30pm) at Pactf* ibkwa.Ptoyers*
;,: and Kweta Abafana Move Boys (tlpm) if    incouverF<
SUN 25 Holly Cole Tno withfctrabas at \ in. cwvor f
show:.' BugsBunnyhlmFesfival('pm-&v3l 'pm)allf«l
■(,7,30pm) and Clean Slate (0\)f»r\) of f- i ilir • rn
MON 26 lh'-l-'',-o']ir  ,!■ nil - .-.-:, ' luo Alternative
Pub. fiugs Bunny Film festival (/pm & 930f oi) ot the Ridge The
(730pm) ond (Jean Store (9-30pm) ot Pg< ilic < inemalheqi
ers' DET Boys Hn-h ' - 30fin)ot Vane ouver I ast Cultural Ceri
27 The. Tea Party witti-fJoy Hatter at the I own Rurnp  Colin
Railway Club Willy Smok / throwers Of fhe
Disco at the Commod' ■ estivd (7pm&
idqe  Stbikwo Plo/ers'06T Boys High f     ,m) al Vancouv
tie!, r
29 Colin Linden of tfie Railway Club   WiHy Smoky Lor.
Flamethrowers it ihe i y at the Pit
FesttVQt(7fDiii '•,- v iOpm) o' m Mt    CMS. Post Modern Si:
Wrxnen Breakinr■ Ground. Inder - ' lol and Perso
Women from Sari I if Pacific Cinemathi
Players DL I Boys High (8 30pn t) of 7 in   > sver Last Cultural C
flW'JWTheGrabby Oaks Band ol tlie Railway Cbb... Pond with Er
RngerSateiiit, Willy Smoky Loggand.the Fk
-  ffieYci-   ^uo>'jr.icTt-<_rsdoy at The Pi
93C        ■   u   M.j   PMS Post Modern Sisters SloorlSti
Grrj jnd Indf-r^endenf.LxpeiirrK-NfatarriPersondCi
"•"' ; Cinematheque Sibikwa Hi
Cultural Centre
■Ot the Railway Ciuti Drag tfie Pi.f
Logg and the Flametyowersat the Ym.   I lol Wednes
>JD„ West '93 at High River R. idro GrajnefS ((   il jay)   Luis
Bunuel Festival Vtrtdi'-"  i        Jprn    ind The Adventures of Robir
16prryafPo   ftc tmemott    j j<    Sibikwa Players DET|pys High(8
dhd'Kwelo Abafana   ' mr oiverFost '-ultui
■SAT ,.31 Rockaway Re lub   Wi
Ftametfirowersotth   , tie  In
bjisBum^Feslivrji Vindi'jio;/ VOt7n)oi '"
(915prti)o'i - •       T;e Sib*waPt<
ver East Cultural Centre  Sibikwa Mayers' DFfloyfrl
Abafana - Move Boys (11pm) at Vancouver Easf Cultural Centre Powell Street
Festival at Oppenheimer Park..
SUN I Powell Street Festival at Oppenheimer Park... Infest '93 at High River Rodeo
Grounds (Calgary) ^—.
JULY    xD ON THE DIAL
SUNDAYS
ARE YOU SERIOUS? MUSIC 8:00AM
12:00PM All ot time is measured by its
art. Mosl broadcasting shuns art tor incestuous market-music. This show presents the mosl recent new music trom
around the world. Ears open. Hosted by
Paul Steenhuisen and lan Crutchley.
THE ROCKERS SHOW 12:15-3:00PM
Reggae inna all styles and fashion.
George Barret, Mike Cheriy and Peter
Williams alternate as hosts.
SOUL CHURCH 3:00-5:00 PM Alternating
Sundays with Brent Argo. Vancouver's
only program devoted entirely to African-
Canadian and African- American Gospel
music. Your rotating hosts are Vence
Yeh and Dave Langille (every second
BLACK MUSIC 6:0O-8:00PM Everything
Irom Ihe African-American tradition:
Blues, Gospel, Jazz, Soul. R&B, Funk,
Hip Hop, and current Dance Tracks.
Mouldy vinyl to shiny CD's. Your host,
Lachlan Murray.
LULU'S BACK IN TOWN 8:0O-9:0OPM Tune
in as your hosts VinnieCarpelli and Sonny
Prince play some of Ihe hottest crooners
on wax. Names like Tony Bennett,
Sammy Davis, Jr., Engelbert
Humperdinckandmany, many more...lots
ol greal cuts and plenty of polyester.
GEETANJALI 9:00-10:00PM Geelanjali is
a one-hour radio show which features a
wide range ol music trom India. This
includes classical music, both Hindustani
and Carnatic, popular music Irom Indian
movies trom the 1930s lo the 199as,
Semi-classical music such as Ghazals
and Bhajans, and also Quawwalis, Folk
Songs, etc. Hosted by J. Dhar, A. Patel
RADIO FREE AMERICA 10:00PM-
12:00AM Join host Dave Emory and
colleague Nip Tuck tor some extraordinary political research guaranteed to
make you think twice. Bring your tape
deck and two C-90s. Originally broadcast on KFJC (Los Altos. Calilornia).
MONDAYS
THEMORNINGSHOW 7:30-:15AMWake
up with the CiTR Morning Show. All the
news, sports and weaiher you need lo
start your day. Plus what's happening at
UBC each day with UBC Digest, a lealure interview and more. Topped otl with
the BBC World Service News at 8:00AM.
live Irom London, England,
BREAKFAST WITH THE BROWNS 8:15-
11:00AM Your lavourite brown-sters,
James and Peter, otter a savoury
blend of the familiar and exotic in an
lights! Tune in and enjoy each weekly
brown plate special.
THE STUPID RADIO SHOW 11:00 AM-
1:00 PM Radio Ga-Ga and other imponderables. Noon feature 'Crucifix In Your
Ear1.
30^_Ka>aa,^a
Wrhyourdi pals June and Ren. RhysFuber
hates you al.
SONIC SALAD 3:0O-4:0OPM Hosled by
Clay Loudermilk.
STRAIGHT OUTTA JALLUNDHAR 4:00-
5:00PM Let DJ's Jindwa and Bindwa
immerse you in radioactive Bhungra!
"Chakkh de phutay" Listen to all our
tavonte Pun|abi tunes - remixes and originals. Brraaaah!
THE CiTt" DINNER REPORT 5:00-5:30PM
All the latest on campus: news, sports, an
in-depth interview, thealre or film review,
editorial commentary and more. Weekdays with hosl lan Gunn.
THUNDERSTRUCK 5:30-6:00PM CiTR's
weekly wrap-up of everything anyone
needs to know about U.B.C. Thunderbird
sports. Hosted by Trevor Brawdy.
BOXER SHORT BOYZ 7:009:00PM Just a
couple ot guys who like to walk around in
their boxer shorts with Iheir big fat guts
hanging out. Jerome Broadway and Garnet Timothy Harry alternate weeks.
THE JAZZ SHOW 9:00PM-12:00AM
Vancouver's longest running prime time jazz
program. Hosted by the ever-suave Gavn
Waker. Features at 11.
July 5: Tonight a tribute lo Miles Davis
by theoutstandingtrio Keith Jarret (piano),
Gary Peacock (bass) and Jack De Johnette
(drums),..this magical group has been together since 1977 and has never sounded
as good. *Bye Bye Blackbird for Miles
July 12: Duke Ellington and his Orchestra are always welcome guests on
The Jazz Show, This lime the Duke features his great fenor saxophonist Paul
Gonsalves in a program of classics. Paul
Gonsalves died in the seventies bul today
is his birthday, and his playing here is really
first rale.
July 19: Soprano saxophonist Steve
Lacy was here for Ihe 1993 Jazz Festival
and tonight one of his finest albums... "The
Straight Hom of Steve Lacy*. This is a
unique and inspired recording featunng
Lacy and baritone saxophonist Charles
Davis backed up by bass (John Ore) and
drums (the greal Roy Haynes). As Lacy
himself would say 'great stuff.
late, great Lee Morgan...trumpeter
extraordinaire! Long 'live' performances
with Morgan's working band at Ihe legendary "Lighthouse" at Hermosa Beach. Hard
driving and inspired playing by Morgan,
Bennie Maupin(reeds), Harold Mabern
(piano) andothers make these now hard to
find recordings a 'must listen'.
SCREAMING INCONSISTENCIES: With
Kelowna Vincent _ |Jenme: What can I
say? jJennie is nol a Redhead anymore.
Kelowna plays wilh her eyelashes. Dr.
Pepper anyone?
TUESDAYS
HELENS HUT 11:O0AM-1:00PM This month
we're oul in the yard - for Helen's Picnic!
Stories.tunes, recipesandachecked tablecloth. Is it a date?
BLOOD ON THE SADDLE 1:15-3:00PM
Country muse to scrape the cowshit off your
boots to. With yet host-poke Jeff Gray
LIVE FROM VENUS 3:OO-5:0OPM Women-
made music and stuff, hosted by Jane
Tilley.
MEET DA BEAN 6:00-7:00PM Rap. hip
hop.and Super Dope Lyncs- so fly that
you'll do 3-5 jusl for getting caught listening to tha stuff. Requests are taken...if you
can get Ihrough on the phone! Ida Bean's
on the tip!
THE UNHEARD MUSIC 7:00-9:00PM Meal
the unherd where the unheard and the
hordes of hardly herd are heard, courtesy
of host and demo director Dale Sawyer.
Herd up!
WOLF AT THE DOOR 9:00PM-12:00AM
Alternating Tuesdays with Avant-Pig. The
latest in dance music and intereslingdrama
every second week. With Lupus
Yonderboy.
AURAL TENTACLES MIDNITE UNTIL
THE MOON DROPS Fun lor the whole
family to enjoy! Weird chunks of news,
odd pieces of tuneage, Pierre and the
2AM WWOD.
WEDNESDAYS
THE YACHT CLUB 11:30AM-1:15PM A
nautical tour of the four corners ol the
musical world. Drop anchor. Hosted by
Matt & D.J. Gav.
NOOLEY TUNES 1:15-3:00PM Spinning the
best and worst of CiTR's playlist. only the
most original requests will be remotely
considered. Emphasis will be on new
material from around the work), regardless of musical classification.
NORMAN'S KITCHEN 3:00-5:00PM Our
music playlist would increase ten fok) it
only the radio station had an eight-track
player! With your host the Reverend
Norman Ministry ot Salvation Church,
Chula Vista, California.
ESOTERIC 5:3O-7:00PM Go Ahead. It won't
make a difference.
OPEN COUNTRY JOY 12:(KM:00AM,1ST
WED. OF EVERY MONTH. Donl let the
?#?%?©? fool you.
TALES FROM THE INFINITE LIVINGROOM
12:0O-?:O0AM, 2ND, 3RD. 4TH WED.
OF EVERY MONTH. Join Chris Panah as
he guides you through the scapes and
dream images of fhe Infinite Livingroom,
THURSDAYS
SHOUR-O-NAVA 7:3O-9:0OAM Shour-o-
nava are names of two main modes of
Iranian music. This show is dedicated lo
Iranian music ranging from traditional,
folk, ethnic. mystic, old and contemporary
scbus tunes. Wild partuty honest hilarity
"ouch". Skeene's the music, Conwa/sthe
voice. The whole is edging the limits.
LO-FI 1 flO-2:30PM lo-fi action with archie,
velvet and rowena.
NARDWUAR THE HUMAN SERVIETTE
PRESENTS... 3:3O4:00PMTheguywho
m lor re
11:00-1:00PM Tune
hostess Coral plays
your local and national favorites.
REVENGE OF THE NERD! 1:0O-3:00PM
FLEX YOUR HEAD 3:00-5:OOPM
-—HARD JINX—-
—ERIC CORE-
GET IN THE RING 5:3M:0OPM Join Mike
and Brian every week to hear them tag
team the issues with guests from all over
Ihe            political spectrum.
OUT   FOR   KICKS   6:00-7:30PM   No
Birkenstocks.nothing politically correct.
We donl get paid soyou're damn right we
have fun with it. Hosted by Chris B.
EDSVILLE, POP.6 7:30-9:00PM Roots of
Rock 'n' Roll - If you don't get into Rock W
Roll Heaven donl blame me! Hosted by
Eddie J.
LIVE FROM THUNDERBIRD RADIO HELL
9:00-11:00PM   Local muzsakc from 9.
Live banz play tha blues Irom 10.
July 8: Drag The River
July 22: Coyote Ugly
RADIO TRANSUBSTANTIATION
YEA!!11:00PM-1AM alternating Thursdays with Gigablast. Are you a prisoner or
a warden? Oh baby, what a crazy scene,
we're back from the darkest depths of hell
and, as it turns out, Sammy Davis Jr. is
thedevilandwe'rereallygoodtapdancers,
and thus we've been granted a new life,
hey hallelujah! Managafeeliadapalenzal!
FRIDAYS
I BEE NORMAL 10:00-11:00AM Pioneers of
Radio Sound advocating th*' mentally/
physically chalenged community with con-
SUN
t_J____L__U
ARE YOU
SERIOUS?
MUSIC
MON        TUE
BREAKFAST
WITH THE
BROWNS
DON AND
GOURD'S
STUPID
RADIO SHOW
OBJEKT
NOIZE
SONIC SALAD
WED
Niiiii.i.ir.nic
MADONNA
DEATH
WATCH
HELENS
HUT
BLOOD ON
THE
SADDLE
MARY
TYLER
MOORE
BLACKS TAN I
DIGITAL
ALARM
CHRONOMETER
THE YACHT
CLUB
NOOLEY
TUNES
NORMAN'S
KITCHEN
THU        FRI
•i.mm num
SAT
SHOUR/NAVA
CANADIAN
LUNCH
FLEX YOUR
HEAD
fl___4-iil_J
___3_a___i!_n__K_n_c_B
GEETANJALI
ONE STEP
BEYOND/
RADIO FREE
AMERICA
IN THE GRIP
OF INCOHERENCY
BOXER
SHORT
BOYZ
THE JAZZ
SHOW
SCREAMING
INCONSISTENCIES
UNHEARD
MUSIC
WOLF AT
THE DOOR/
AVANT PIG
AURAL
TENTACLES
ESOTERIC/
NEWSHOW
THE REAL
DEAL
ENTERTAINMENT
TALES FROM
THE INFINITE
LIVINGROOM
OUT FOR
KICKS
LIVE FROM
THUNDERBIRD
RADIO HELL
MEGABLAST!
VENUS
FLYTRAP
INTERNTL.
I BEE NORM
FUNK..DUB/
NARDWUAR,
NOIZ SHOW
THE
SATURDAY
EDGE
POWER
CHORD
AFRICAN
SHOW
8
9
10
11
Canuck irnrTTrJ12
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
1
2
3
4
COCKTAILS
WITH DARYL
AND
SUSI
HOME
BASS
LIMP
SINK
HEIMLICH
MANOUVRE
GROOVE
JUMPING
SOMETHING
THE CiTR DINNER REPORT 5:0O-5:2OPM
With The Voice of Reason," our weekly
look back at the week in the news, tongues
firmly in cheek.
IT'S NOT EASY BEING GREEN   5:30 -
6:00PM  Kelowna babbles about talking
pix.'    What is the difference between a
movie and a film? I'mworkingonthatfirst.
World Peace next. Is there a connection.?
(Yeah,     right     Cathi     -     Dave)
Guests...sometimes.
COCKTAILS WITH DARYL AND SUSI 6:00-
9:00PM Undergroundsoundsystem-style
mastermix radio.
FOR THE RECORD 6:30-6:45PM Excerpts
from Dave Emory's Radio Free America
Series.
HOMEBASS 9:OOPM-12:30AM Dope jams
and fresh beats for a groovy evening with
DJ Noah on the wheels of steel.
LIMP SINK 12:30AM-Morning Lulabies for
the Christ-child. Hosted by the G42 play-
"She mashed it harder and harder, but she had
fun, and it was her banana." Fire Pipe was
brought to you by the number "180" and
the letter "G".
The Doctor Killdare Show -
My tavonte part was when she went lo go grab
the banana and Julius Ceasar cried ZE RAM!
and then the monkey scientists tainted!
SATURDAYS
THE SATURDAY EDGE   8OTAM-12A0PM
Now in its ah year on the air, The Edge on
Folkteatures music you wonl hear anywhere
else: new releases in the realm of Celtic, Fok
and Roots; studio guests; British comedy
sketches; and British soccer results at 1130
AM. 8-9 AM: AfricarVWorld roots. 9-12 noon:
Celtic music and feature performances.
POWERCHORD 12:15-3«JPM Vaxouver's
only true metal show; local demo tapes,
imports and other rarities. Gerald Rattlehead
and Metal Ron do the damage
THE AFRICAN SHOW 3OMA0PM Ifs a
muse thing from al "Africa.* Ifs an awareness thing of sel and others. Ifsan African
house party. Stories, music, dance fun. Welcome! Your hosts: Umerah and Mawele.
THE SATURDAY MAGAZNE 5KX«:30PM
UBC's weekend news. Al the latest news,
sports, weather, a movie review, feature
report and more.
IN EFFECT 6:00. :00PM The Hip Hop beat and
nuttif butt. With hostPDS.
THE HEIMLICH MANOUVRE SttMOKXlPM
Sophisticaledradioforthe*er dinner crowd.
GROOVE JUMPING 10:00PM-1:00AM Terry
and John? Justin and Tom? Choose your
hunks!
SOMETHING 1:004:00AM A cute little blurb
with a subversive undertone and a slight
at you donl.
WHOM   &   HOW
A RTS JOHN SEMINOFF
BOARD CHAIR HARRY HERTSCHEG
CURRENTAFFAIRS ANGUSWILSON
DEMOS/CASSETTES DALE SAWYER
ENGINEER RICHARD ANDERSON
ENTERTAINMENT CHRIS CHEN
LIBRARIAN
VINCE    YEH
DRU PAVLOV
JUSTIN LEIGH
DRU PAVLOV
JR
ADAM SLOAN
A.O. CHAPMAN
M WEISER
MOBILE SOUND
MUSIC
PRESIDENT
PRODUCTION
PROGRAMMING
PROMOTIONS
SPORTS
STATION MANAGER LINDA SCHOLTEN
VICE PRESIDENT JEREMY PRICE
VOLUNTEER COORDINATOR     JOHN RUSKIN
BUSINESS LINE 604/822-3017
DJ LINE 604/822-2487 (UBC-CiTR)
NEWS LINE    604/822-5334 (B22-JEDI)
FAX LINE 604/822-9364
ENVOY ID CITR.FM BAD RELIGION
f*t f0? mw
o
GQ
%i^ 86420 -:
ci-CJ
cr
CD
Epitaph
6201  ., .
sunset blvd.
suite #111.
hollywood ca.
90028 1869 W 4th Ave.,
Vancouver. BC
V6J1M4
CANADA
tel 604.738.3232
STORE HOURS
Mon to Wed 10:30-7:00
Thurs and Fri 10:30-9:00
Sat 9:30-6:30
Sun 12:00-6:00
New From
From the label that brought you
some of the finest bands and
releases of 1992 [Come.
Superchunk. Thinking Fellers
Union Local 282. Bettie Serveert.
etc...]. comes a new whack of
releases guaranteed to have you
searchin" for superlatives into the
wee hours.
Records!
Jon Spencer Blues Explosion
•Extra Width
Out of the garage and into your home, it's the Blues
Explosion's debut release for Matador. Recorded in Memphis,
birthplace of the blues. Extra Width smokes with a hot
n of style and riffage Guaranteed to get your
er jumpin!
Liz Phair
• Exile From Guyville
People will say this is a masterpiece, and yeah, it is.
These same people will talk about how Liz is a shining
star among the new breed of singer/songwriters and
sure, they'll be right But what these people won't
simply say is that this record ROCKS! In a folky kinda
way. So buy it OK?
ta
BAILTER    S*
1
*
ROBOT     MORLJ
Bailter Space
® Robot World
On their third LP. New Zealand's Baiter Space create an
oceanic soundscape that washes over the listener with
thick waves of droning guitars. Sometimes it's harsh
and eerie and sometimes it's dreamy and hypnotic. K's
something for everyone.
mPH0®?
ft
Bad Religion • Recipe For Hate - What can you say about these punk rock legends? They play sold-out shows
around the globe, they have one of the most successful totaUy independent record labels, and they sett thousands of their own
albums on their own terms. So is Recipe for Hate a lame compromise of Bad Religion's ideals? As if. Recipe for Hate simply
punk rocks. IMPORT - 16.98 CD/9.98 CS
Babes in Toyland • Painkiller/ Flaming Lips ® Transmissions- New Mini- LP's from a couple of bands
who put out two of 1992s best releases. Painkiller contains new material plus live versions of tunes from Fontanelle - over 40
minutes of music! Then there's Oklahoma's Flaming Lips with Transmissions, the follow up to Hit to Death. Loud stuff, man!
IMPORT- 12.98 CD/8.98CS
Tsunami • Deep End - Following a series of 7-inch single releases. Tsunami's latest and full-length offering
generously displays Ms. Toomie's vocal stytings as well as the band's all-round skilled pop/rock abilities.
IMPORT - U.98 CD/9.98 CS
NOMEANSNO • Why Do They Call Me Mr. Happy - This is the back to their roots' NoMeansNo album.
Singer/guitarist Andy left for Amsterdam, so it's just John and Rob Wright just like the good old days, circa Mama. With these
guys.youcantgowmng.GetH? |MpQRT _ ^ ^ ^ ^
Fugazi * In On the Killtaker- For those of you who couldn't decipher the muddy sound at their last show in the
acoustically bankrupt Plaza of Nations, don't worry! The much anticipated new album from that band from Washington. D.C. is
out! This time. Fugazi have not only rediscovered the distortion function on their amplifiers, they're also playing with new found
youth and vigor. So get in on the ktittaker. kids, but please - no stage diving,     i ii dq dt _ 11 oo rn/fi 98 CS
Urge Overki 11 ® Saturation - Saturation owes more to Rio Grande-era ZZ Top (hey - the first step is admitting it) than to
mid- to late-70's KISS or Boston. The rocking tunes and unlikely production skills ofthe Butcher Bros. (Kriss Kross) make this
one from the men from U.R.G.E. a sure-fire hit Take a ride, catch a wave and pour yourself a long. tall, cool one cuz people all
around you will be falling in love to this album. " 4 og CD/9.98 CS
COAL! Followed by a special late-night
screening of Francis Ford Coppola's 1963
b+w shock-horror flick  Dimentia   13.
Station Street Arts Centre.
930 Station Street (near Main+Prior).
Thursday. July 15.10:30 pm.
Tix @ door only.  BEFORE RECORDING
For All Your Professional
Tape Requirements
DIGITAL AUDIO TAPE
0EQt
L
_\_
>Imperial Magnetics Ltd.-
7-12840 Bathgate Way
Richmond, B.C. V6V 1Z4
Tel: (604) 270-8682
Fax: (604) 270-2745
AFTER   RECORDING
For All Your CD. &, Cassette
Duplication Requirements
/ Competitive Prices
/ Consistent High Quality
/ Graphic Design/Printing
y Fast Turn-Around
SOIURISE
Audio Duplication Ltd.
Suite 12-12840 Bathgate Way
Richmond, B.C. V6V 1Z4
Tel: (604) 278-1544 (collect)
Fax: (604) 278-3486 LOCAL MUSIC DIRECTORY • SUMMER 1993
TABLE   OF  CONTENTS
r
Associations........ 4
Bands/ Musicians. 4
Graphic Designers/Photographers. ...9
Legal Services 10
Managers. 10
Producers 10
Promoters. 10
Promotion Agents 11
Publications. 11
Radio 12
Record Labels. 13
Record Stores 14
Studios. 14
Venues. 14
Miscellaneous Other. 14
~i
DISCORDER LOCAL MUSIC DIRECTORY 1994
If you aren't in this year's edition and would like to be in next year's, or would like to
change your listing or make corrections, fill out the form below and send it to us. Thanks!
YOU ARE A: Band/Musican Graphic Designer Photographer Legal Counsel Manager/
Agent Producer Promoter Promotion Agent Publication Radio Station/Program, Record
Label Retail Store (music-related) Studio Music Venue Video Producer
 Other(please elaborate: )
NAME:	
DESCRIPTION (15 words or less):	
ADDRESS:.
PHONE:	
PHONE:	
FAX:	
.CONTACT:
.CONTACT:
Please fill this out legibly and send it to us c/o Discorder Directory, Rm. 233,
6138 SUB Blvd., Vancouver, B.C., V6T 1Z1 or fax it to (604) 822-3017. Listings are free. Thank you
■        OXOO 9UD DIVU.,  Vdill,uuver,  D.W.,  VOI   X-.J. ur
ZJ 4 • Associations - Canadian Music Network
disorder
ASSOCIATIONS
Canadian Music Network
Promotes research Into Canadian rock history and
knowledge of Canadian music... send S.A.S.E. for
details.
746 Broadview Ave., Toronto, 0NM4K2P1
(416) 461-3832 (Marc Coulavin)
Glta Gavada Inter nations'
Music advocacy for movement of joy and message
and idea.
0801-850 Bidwell St., Vancouver, BC V6G 2J8
(604) 687-4561 (Larry W. Johnson)
Pacific Music Industry Association
Advocates for B.C. music industry, creators to
manufactures; sponsors Music West, produces
Demo Listen Derby.
400-177 WJthAve., Vancouver, BC V5Y1L8
(604) 873-1914 (Ellie O'Day, Exec.Dir)
Fax* (604) 876-4104
SOCAN
Performing rights society.
1201 W. Pender St., 4th floor, Vancouver, BC V6E
2V2
(604) 669-5569 (Kent Sturgeon)
Fax* (604) 688-1142
Atmostfear
Punk. We have been together for 2 years.
13236 94th Ave. W., Kirkland, WA 98034 USA
(206) 823-1164 (Kristen Myers)
Big Oven
Direct from the basement of the garage, out of the
frying pan and into the oven.
929 W. 23rd Ave., Vancouver, BC
(604) 736-3590 (Andrew Laurenson)
Blaise Pascal
If rockin' is a crime... then let us be guilty!
*206-2080 Maple St., Vancouver, BC V6J 4P9
(604) 731-8787 (Nicolas Bragg)
(604) 732-6905 (Michael Leduc)
Blue Confusion
Original folk, funk & fusion.
PO Box 165, 1896 W. Broadway, Vancouver, BC V6J
1Y9
(604) 732-4012 (Frances Wennes)
Tha Bombshells
"We're a rock & roll band from Canada".
303-68 Water St., Vancouver, BC V6B1A4
(604) 682-8569 (Michael Fisher Mgmt.)
Fax* (604) 682-8589
BANDS/MUSICIANS
©#*&! (A Cartoon Swear)
A gtow-in-the-dark attitude with tense songwriting and
a flair for the absurd.
244 Howard Ave., Burnaby, BC V5B 3P5
(604) 299-2064 (Ken Gourlay)
Abandoned Youth
Original rock 'n' roll with a heavy edge.
*203-2185 W. 8th Ave., Vancouver, BC
(604) 737-8971 (Burke Ehmig)
(604) 7398469 (Danny Tricks)
Aging Youth Gang
Higtvenergy, fun punk with melody and humour.
1018 Odium Dr., Vancouver, BC V5L 3L6
(604) 254-2240 (Sandy Beach)
Yeah.
2905 St. Kilda Ave., North Vancouver, BC V7N 2A8
(604) 980-9444 (Josh Pasnak)
BrocolU Surprise
A bunch of people who pretend to be able to play.
2095 Ftym Place, North Vancouver. BC V7P 3H8
(604) 984-8020 (Jonathan)
BUM
We are a rock and roll band, not a fashion line.
*5-1404 Harrison St., Victoria, BC V8S 3S2
(604) 370-1943 (Andrew)
Caffeine Charlie's Wake-up Service
Catchy cut-ups, power electronics and mystical
ambient trancescapes. (cassettes only).
PO Box 18142, Vancouver, BC V6M 4L3
(604) 264-9958 (*116 Productions)
Candy Apple Green
Noisy guitar pop. The Jesus and Mary Chain meets
Sonic Youth.
*407-960 Jems St., Vancouver, BC V6E 2B9
(604) 669-3997 (Dennis Pyo or Andrew Pyatt)
Catfish
High energy, hard hittin', groovy, original rock'n'roll.
5570 Inverness St., Vancouver, BC V5W3P3
(604) 325-3402 (Pond Slime Productions)
Catnip
Queer vixens. We may be cute but we bite. Oon't call
us riot grrls.
2116 W. 8th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6K 2A4
(604) 738-5821 (Sharon Roberts, Tami Setala or
Chloe Sekouri)
Fax* (604) 291-3695
Children of Atom
Cybernetic Noise Tec Future Core.
2717 Franklin St., Vancouver, BC V5K1X7
(604) 253-9578 (Rex Cobol or Darryl Marko)
Churslnoff, Nick & The Drop Dolls
Edgy rock, 1992 Demo Listen Derby runner-up.
400-177 W.7th Ave., Vancouver, BC V5Y1L8
Ethereal western psychedelic lounge music noir.
1050 Odium Dr., Vancouver, BC V5L 4L6
(604) 253-5330 (Nicole or Marcus)
Fax* (604) 875-9971
Rick Colboume * Hard Poetry
4 pee. band. Alternative acoustic (acoustic
alternative?)
*209-1306 Cardero St., Vancouver, BC V6G 2J1
(604) 6885506 (Rick Colboume)
Corpusse
Fucken original underground.
PO Box 542 Succ. R, Montreal, PQ H2S 3M3
(514)273-3727
Coyote Ugly
Not much to look at, but great to liaten to
*501-120 W. 2nd Ave., North Vancouver, BC V7M
1C3
(604) 984-4610 (Nathan Lorch)
cub
Ooh ia la, ooh-ee cha cha, ooh la la, cha cha chal
837 W. 19th Ave., Vancouver, BC
(604) 876-2132 (Lisa or Robynn)
Dancing On Glass
Loud, hard-edged alternative groove shit - aurally
pornographic pop-fuck music.
3085294 204th St., Langley, BC
(604) 530-0519 (Steve Gendron)
Female vocalist with range seeks work: backing and
lead, studio casual, videos, voice-overs.
(604) 4360208 (Helsa Daniels)
The Darkest of the Hillside Thickets
La la cthulhu ftaghn! Rock, costumes and pure evil!
2602 Campbell Ave., Abbotsford, BC
(604) 859-8291 or (604) 8533071 (Warren)
(604) 855-6645 (Chris)
Dejected Vulcan
Two man a cappeila love test. News from papa
Box 56573 Lougheed Postal Outlet, Burnaby, BC V3J
7W2
(604) 464-3665 (Wozzle)
Deprogrammers
Cyber Krishna/Techno/lndustrial/Noisecore.
Box 50044, S. Slope RPO, Burnaby, BC V5J 5G3
(604) 436-1680 (Radha-Vinoda Dasa)
Despised
Fast hardcore with a melodic twist. Will play
anywhere.
6617181 St., Surrey, BC V3S 8E7
(604) 574-4220 (Mike)
(604) 596S796 (John)
Dog Eat Dog
Furious, fucked up and often hilarious... unwinds like
a tourniquet of punk power from hell.
*211-10720138 St., Surrey, BC V3T 4K5
(604) 589-9109 (Scott Martin)
(604) 582-7560 (Bob Stierle) Local Music Directory
Bands/Musicians - Floragore • 5
e Boys
Thrash-folk. Original politically-incorrect music for the
90's.
5068 St. Catherines St., Vancouver, BC
(604) 322-6847 (Tom)
Fax* (604) 322-8757
Done In
P.C. hardcore in the vein of Minor Threat, Bom
Against, etc.. Glen Records recording artists.
2380 MacKayAve., Vancouver, BC V7P 2M9
(604) 980-1979 (Ryan Sabourin)
(604) 937-0368 (Warren Hill)
Drag The River
Heavy music with an open mind.
2905 St. Kilda Ave., North Vancouver, BC V7N 2A8
(604) 980-9444 (Josh Pasnak)
Dual Squid Rebellion
Descriptionless clot of sonic sculpture. Independent
of musical rudiments, a smorgasbord of ginger
chutney hymns.
2083 Abbott St., Kelowna, BC V1Y1C5
(604) 763-YMCA (Mark Looser)
Elvis Love Child
Bigmuffsonicsludgelovinhairfarminindicapraisin
crazyshrtgrungotdpunkmotherfuckers.
Jumbalia Crib, Vancouver, BC
(604) 879-7702 (Kevin McBride)
Pgr. * (604) 735-1714
The Evaporators
Pure teenage zit rawk angst.
c/o Nardwuar Records, P.O. Box 27021,1395
Marine Dr., Vancouver, BC V7T 2X8     (604) 254-
0299 (Scott)
Noisy, poppy, guitar based, melodic, polite, young,
kind of sad, kind of bored.
469 Ferris Road, Kelowna, BC V1W INI
(604) 764-4874 (Kyle Fogden)
The Elephant's Child
Groovy ethereal grunge-rock.
1075 W. Broadway, Apt. *2, Vancouver, BC V6H
(604) 430-0069 (Dege Ratak)
Real loud. Real wacky. Real Facepuller.
PO Box 16012-3017 Mountain Hwy, North
Vancouver, BC V7J 3S9
(604) 936-6332 (Brad)
(604) 986-7663 (Brent)
Fax* 876-9350 (lan)
Faith A Desire
"Dying flowers in a mussy lake with a beat..." -
Industrial Nation
5523 Wallingford Ave. N., Seattle, WA 96103 USA
(206) 63Z4029 (Erie Cooley)
(206) 5454831 (Dara Rosenwasser)
The Falcons
Original sun* and tun* instrumental rock.
*35-2137 West 1st Ave., Vancouver, BC V6K1E7
(604) 732-0473 (Mike Beddoes)
Fax* (604) 736S472
Family Curkus
Hip and up to date.
23086118 Ave., Maple Ridge, BC
(604) 463-3947 or (604) 467-9854 (Rojer Harris)
Fatal Hatred
Original pomcore death metal, extremely heavy.
6857188th St., Surrey, BC V3S 5M1
(604) 574-4263 (Mr. J. Bryak)
15 For Kirsten
Driving five-piece band with strong female vocals -
and she doesn't play bass.
3861 W. 12th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6R 2N9
(604) 879-3195 (Jo Frank)
(604) 443-7281 (Rsherrose)
Fires tar
Multi-instrumentalist / composer into improvisation
(all styles) available for studio / performance.
PO Box 165,1896 W. Broadway, Vancouver, BC V6J
1Y9
(604) 732-4012
The Futures
Pleasant.
4573 Ross St., Vancouver, BC V5V4T8
(604) 879-6293 or (604) 879S391 (Randy, Dave
or John)
Flat Top
Tom Scholtz does punk rock.
2828 W. 11th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6K 2M1
(604) 737-7669 (Tom)
Floragore
When men and women agree, it ia only in their
conclusions; their reasons are always different.
163 Station St., Duncan, BC V9L 1MB
(604) 746-8869 (51)
Fax* (604) 746-8894
&*nti0koifflb*.
■.■MMfl'l.->i*H*raWM™^
ON SALE UNTIL JULY 10 AT 568 SEYMOUR ST. (DOWNTOWN) ONLY. FOUR FLOORS OF FUNt 6 • Bands/Musicians - The Flu
DlSfcOBPER
TheFki
ursprache of punk rock.
Leaders Of The Old School
Guitar pop but no big hair. You'll like our tape.
1285 E. 18th Ave., Vancouver, BC V5V1H3
Real Tim Dog, Clinton-esque 1970's funk.
4692 Sardis St., Burnaby, BC V5H 1L3
(604) 874-9151 (Justice or Mark)
*2334138 SUB Blvd., Vancouver, BC V6T1Z1
(604) 875-1956 (Rick/Allen — booking)
Fax* (604) 687-0488
(604) 822-3017 (Adam 'Bootsy- Sloan)
(604) 439-9465 (Seb/Derek — other info)
Fax* (604) 822-9364
Fax* (604) 433-4881
Hotplate
Four chord fun stuff with Vancouver's best drummer.
Uttle Manfred
The Fourth Man
2828 W. 11th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6K 2M1
Big and lumpy - Mmm... yummy.
High-brow music for industrial people.
(604) 737-7669
12742 27A Ave., White Rock, BC V4A 2N5
(604) 684-7270 (Gabriel Abney)
(604) 538-1803 (Hans)
(604) 879-0295 (David Ceilings)
Chris Houston and his Evil Twang
Drunken psycho rock'n'roll with John Card, Brian
The Lonesome Canadians
The Frayed Knots
Goble, Alex Varty. Also solo shows.
Edgy easy-listening for the post-corduroy generation.
An alternative blend of rootsy rock, funked up folk
48 E. 6th Ave., Vancouver, BC V5T 4P4
We rock!
and psychotic country grooves.
(604) 875-9927 (Chris Houston)
*40-1831 Robson St., Vancouver, BC V6G1E4
(604) 255-5907 (No Strirgs Productions)
(604) 683-6518 (Matt)
(604) 2513611
Ice-Cream Truck
Terrorism not music.
(604) 2534764 (Eric)
Les Freres Ducomcombre
2444 E. 7th Ave., Vancouver, BC V5M1T1
M blanket
Lightning-fast death metal - sung in French to boot!
(604) 254-4135 (Dick or Drummer)
Sinatra's illegitimate children eat their wheaties.
Heaps of growling. Glen Records artists.
Second DIY tape out soon. Shows for gas/coffee.
2380 Mac Kay Ave., Vancouver, BC V7P 2M9
Idiot Savant
PO Box 5504, Victoria, BC V8R 6S4
(604) 980-1979 or (604) 937-0368 (Ryan
Fast-slow, smart-stupid, uplifting-depressing music.
Sabourin)
2255 Central Ave., Port Copuitlam, BC V3C1V7
The Many
(604) 941-6240 (Steve Whan)
Dinosaur Jr., Fugazi, Smashing Pumpkins,
Funkyard
Nomeansno, Big Country, Rush, Jesus Lizard, Afghan
Heavy duty funkaphonic. lickadelic, metal, boogie.
Itch
Whigs.
5669 Tyne St., Vancouver, BC V5R 4L5
Mozart meets NoMeansNo. Good music to wake up
1547 Comox St., Vancouver, BC V6G1P5
(604) 433-5036 (Don Jeevious)
to.
(604) 688-0784 (Andre McGillrvray)
517 E. Georgia St., Vancouver, BC V6A 1Z8
(604) 687-6691 (Wes Molneux)
Tom Glenne
Can't find players with drive, diversity, "vision*. Sly,
Jef
Mark
Belfegore, Whigs, Prong, Waits, Frissel, Minutemen,
Jef! Jef! Jef! Jef! Jef! Jef! Jef! Jef! Jef! Jef! Jef! Jef!
i get up, I sing my songs, get drunk...all one can do.
Swing.
Jef! Jef! Jef!
12S5 £ 18th Ave., Vancouver, BC
2828 W. 11th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6K 2M1
*4 302 W. 2nd Ave., Vancouver, BC V5Y1C8
(604) 874-9151 (Mark)
(604) 737-7669 (Rat Top/Hotplate/?)
(604) 261-2036 (Jef)
Fax* (604) 2634173
Fax* (604) 687-0488
Thee Goblins
Sarah McLachlan
We know 11 songs.
Juke Monkeys
Songs as soothing to the lonely as hot Red Zinger
*699-810 W. Broadway, Vancouver, BC V5Z 4C9
Better than a kick in the balls with a frozen boot.
on a rainy day.
(604) 254-0299 (Scott)
Nelson Park PO Box 93511, Vancouver, BC V6E1N0
c/o Nettwerk, 1250 W. 6th Ave.,  Vancouver, BC
(604) 623-1461 (Big F.L Productions)
V6H1A5
Grandma Moses
(604) 654-2929 (Terry McBride)
Brilliance, by far the most important band in
Kamlvorous Raunch Fux
Fax* (604) 654-1993
history...and no flannel!
Punk hate fun offensive wasted party dirty rude not
300-7200 Lindsay Rd., Richmond, BC V7C 3M6
hippies or rap.
Meet Daisy
(604) 873-5155 (Dave, Todd, Mick, Mike or
1376 E. 12th Ave., Vancouver, BC V5N 2A1
Just fine.
Sandy)
(604) 8764622 (Noel Asshole)
4323 Windsor St., Vancouver, BC V5V4P3
(604) 879-2571 (Rene)
Gunface
Kid Champion
Sort of like the Grateful Dead meets Gunface.
Timid mkJ-fi pop fuzz.
The Mighty Cumshots
4391 Ranger Ave., North Vancouver, BC V7R 3L1
4323 Windsor St., Vancouver, BC V5V4P3
The absolute climax of annoyance. Glen Records
(604) 9804143 (Robbie -The Ace' Grace)
(604) 879-2571 (Bill/Brady)
recording artists (we actually have four albums!).
2380 MacKayAve., Vancouver, BC V7P 2M9
Gus (formerly Seed)
King Salmon
(604) 980-1979 (Ryan Sabourin)
'When 1 blow, spiders come out. Where 1 step a
Pubic Nonesense Nuisance Public essence new
(604) 937-0368 (Warren Hill)
weed dies..."-Mr. Albini.
sense pubic noise.
Box 8187, Victoria, BC V8W 3R8
Box 40122 Harbour Sq., Victoria, BC V8W 3N3
Terry Miles (Wood)
(604) 739-8012 (Tod)
(604) 477-9807 (Steve)
A dark, acoustic adventure in love rock.
Box 93559 Nelson Park P.O., Vancouver, BC V6E
Hazel Motes
Landed and Invisible
4L7
Alternative folk-rock band.
The voices of the landed and invisible minority - from
(604) 6694895 (Terry Miles)
2424 Franklin St., Vancouver, BC V5K4X4
the invisible radio shows. Tapes for sale!
(604) 253-1574 (Kele Fleming)
*202-222Ash St.. New Westminster, BC V3M 3M4
Minimalist Jug Band
Washed up guy on a washtub bass. Mumbler/
Head Trophies
Lava Hay
songwriter bares his godforsaken soul.
Electronic esoterica.
Misty, midnight listening.
*101-1371 W. 13th Ave., Vancouver, BCV6H1N7
(604) 689C575 (Wayne Freno)
c/o Nettwerk, 1250 W. 6th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6H
1A5
(604) 654-2929 (Terry McBride)
(604) 732-9671 (Al Mader)
The Hollowheads
Montag's Shoulders
Delightful little pop quartet a la Jazz Butcher,
Fax* (604) 654-1993
4-piece outrageous original act - dark - evil - you
Rheostatics.
might cry.
(604) 277-1393 (Graham Meek)
Lawndart
1139 NW62ndSt., Seattle, WA 98107 USA
American butt rockers. Shane's a dork, Ben's a
(206) 789-2553 (Pete Bossier)
Horsey
dork, Dave's a dork, Tony is cool.
An ambitious triumvirate; incrementally, perhaps
(206) 755-0910 (Tony or Shane)
Movieland
quixotically, redeeming the muzzy, heteromorphous
Bigger than Jurassic Park. Local Music Directory
Bands/Musicians - Glenn Scott • 7
1491 Devonshire Cres., Vancouver, BC V6H 2G5
(604) 7364491 or (604) 875-9629 (Alan Boyd)
Mutant Starfish
Use Satan's genes in unnatural kinetic overdrive,
explosive energy, guns, drugs and violent sex.
(604) 2544207 (Max the Axe)
Fax* (604) 291-4455
Mystery Machine
Cannabis, hi-test and loud, bud amplifiers.
c/o Nettwerk, 1250 West Sixth Ave., Vancouver, BC
V6H1A5
(604) 654-2929 (Ric Arbeit)
Fax* (604) 654-1993
Naked Lunch
Dripping, schmegma-coated, original, norvcandy-
coated rock & roll.
66 Water St., Vancouver, BC V6B1A4
(604) 6834695 (Just 2 Productions)
Fax* (604) 683-5953
Night Nurse
Poetry and folk music.
*304-1483 Lamey's Mill Rd., Vancouver, BC V6H
3Y7
(604) 733-5095 (Tessa Warburton)
1285 E. 18th Ave., Vancouver, BC V5V1H3
(604) 874-9151 (Trackshun Industries)
Fax* (604) 6874488
Psychotic Jamnatlon
Loud, booty-shaking grooves.
4853 3rd Ave., Delta, BC V4M 4C1
(604) 943-7287 (Jason Kennedy)
Puck + Bottom
* A sprrtely band* featuring rock, blues, jazz and
country, for dances and theatre projects.
011O-2182 W.12th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6K 2N4
(604) 732-4436 (Dr. H. Breen)
Sleazy skateboard music.
2861 Northcrest Dr., White Rock, BC V4A 4K7
(604)538-4727
5322 Main St., Vancouver, BC V5W 2R7
(604) 3224874 (Robin)
Fax* (604) 3224874
Paisley Suitcase
1514 Stayte Rd., White Rock, BC V4B 4Z4
(604) 535-9691 (Don Webber)
Leonard Pennlfold
Original singer-songwriter. 'Folk punk'n'roll', electric
and acoustic, band and solo.
*8021616 Pendrell St., Vancouver, BC V6G1S8
(604) 684-7413 (Leonard)
Pez
Hard driving melodic punk from Victoria. MTX meets
the Supersuckers.
*404-2626 Cook St., Victoria, BC V8T3S1
(604) 3824347 (Glen Mullaly)
Slayer meets Skinny Puppy and Beethoven in
processor; industrial strength thrash metal w
4195 Doncaster Way, Vancouver, BC V6S 1W1
(604) 228-9606 (Mark)
Psychedelic and repetitious noisy rock & roll,
focused and vacant.
10140 Aintree Cres., Richmond, BC V7A 3T8
(604) 275-7529 (James)
(604) 241-3994 (Dave)
Pork Queen
Torso LP virtually ignored locally. I'll show you ;
be a fucking star!
Crash boom pow kablam.
(604) 669-7809 or (604) 220-3185 (Mam
Damien)
Scare tae tix
Ultrfrheavy. barbaric hardcore metal, filled with
groove ladden hooks.
6057 Kathleen Ave., Burnaby, BC V5H 2S5
(604) 435-4180 or (604) 5904879 (ArfryART
Ent. Group)
Hardcore acoustic songwriter.
Box 69553, Station K, Vancouver, BC V5K 4W7
(604) 875-1848 (Walter Quinlan)
R.IJ».
Mother Earth's prophets of peace through music,
"Save the earth or die with it" - R.I.P.
1224 16th Ave. E., Seattle, WA 98112 USA
(206) 325-2723 (Vyper Productions)
Reality Check
Hard-edged COAST pap from the monolithic cyber-
darlir^s of CFOX.
*307-2050 W. 2nd Ave., Vancouver, BC V6J1J4
(604) 732-5877 (Dom Koric)
The Redenbachers
The perfect mixture of poo and pee. Shitty punk
1688 W. 64th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6P 2P1
(604) 277-4458 (Geoff)
Ronln
Vocalist / Keyboard player / guitarist.
(604) 737-2634 (Marianne Lechuk)
Fax* (604) 737-2634
Rosetta Stone
A thick, dark, powerful groovy romp. Bigger than
love.
PO Box 93559 Nelson Park, Vancouver, BC V6E 417
(604) 6694895 or (604) 681-2631 (Terry Miles)
Rotorcloud
Heavy, melodic, guitar-oriented band - a "can't put
your finger on it" sound.
*109-1222 Harwood St., Vancouver, BC V6E1S2
(604) 6854427 (Steve Maxwell)
(604) 7314950 (Kenn Sakurai)
Roughage
Internationally acclaimed experimental/ambient/
performance project. Weirder than you.
317A Cambie St., Vancouver, BC V6B 2N4
Fax* (604) 6874488 (Zev Asher)
Rumplesteelskin
Original 8-piece funk, rhythm, and soul.
1252 E.llthAve., Vancouver, BC V5T 2G3
(604) 876-1172 (Avi Shack)
RUN DONT WALK
Ex-members of Shindig finalist "Gracious Four" -
tough power pop with a bent literary edge.
(604) 844-6067 (Fred Horsman)
(604) 325-3296 (George Scott)
Rusty Clay and British Mm Friend
Songs about: Ranches, slumber parties, the Clan,
Dione Warwick with electric bagpipes, sour cream,
buttocks.
Multimedia artist, 5 tape releases, 2 solo art
shows. New show demo available.
339 Railway St.. Vancouver B.C. V6A 1A4
(604) 6884459 (Glenn Scott)
INFE
STED 8 • Bands/Musicians - Seamen
di^obdeR
Seamen
Punk rock'n'roll influenced by beer, gator ade and tt
Dwarves. Cloverdaie legends.
6617181 St., Surrey, BC V3S 8E7
(604) 574-4228 (Mike)
(604) 882-9670 (Jason)
cyberage against my sister's monster mystery
Sometimes electronic, sometimes acoustic,
sometimes moody, sometimes hypnotic, very
3573 W. 16th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6R 3C2
(604) 7314950 (K. Sakurai)
(604) 734-1544 (W. Takeuchi)
Section Eight
Don't worry, the initial internal bleeding will hea
316 Adamson Dr., Penticton, BC V2A 7R6
(604) 493-2101 (Kyle Harcott)
602 Keefer St., Vancouver, BC
(604) 253-5648 (Slave)
Sex on the Rag
Bass, bass, drums, drums, guitar. Melvins, Engine
Kid, Sludge, Hitting Birth, Tar, Big Black, etc...
2380 Mac Kay Ave., North Vancouver, BC V7P 2M9
(604) 980-1979 (Ryan Sabourin)
(604) 9374368 (Warren Hill)
Sex With Nixon
Greasy, free-basing, anal-ore block parents from
Vanderhoof... the sounds of love!
*5-916 W. Broadway, Vancouver, BC
(604) 736-2598 (Joe)
(604) 7364118 (Dan)
Fax* (604) 737-7113
With Sonraise, their debut CD in hand, Shine
embarks on cross-Canada tour this fall.
2247 W. 7th Ave., Vancouver, BC
(604) 7324468 (DYB Productions)
Fax* (604) 732-4645
SUIconformlty/MIs anthropology
An aesthetically-obvious, ianistically-oblrvious
Sister Lovers
Horrifying circus music!
1705 West 10th Ave., *102, Vancouver, BC V6J
2A4
(604) 7344937 (Mark Kleiner)
The Smugglers
Frustrated synttvpop.
2874 Bellevue Ave., West Vancouver, BC V7T 2X8
(604) 926-9444 (Grant Lawrence)
Dual-action wa-wa girls and their drummer Bernie.
Bikini Kill without the kill. Glen Records artists.
9001 S.W. 9th Drive, Portland, OR 97219 USA
(503) 245-2526 (Ewe Weston)
Sourpuss
Brilliant. "Sourpuss* should cause people to argue
and celebrate for years.
2054 E. Broadway, Vancouver, BC
(604) 255-2711 (Chooch)
...did you get the name of that truck?
PO Box 1457, Station 'A', Vancouver, BC V6C 2P7
(604) 291-9434 (Rob)
Speed Buggy
Trite, contrived and appallingly boring guitar pop.
More fun than a Saturday moming cartoon.
1483 Lamey's Mill Road, Vancouver, BC V6H 3Y7
(604) 737-2899 (Andrew Pyatt)
(604) 737-0410 (Simon Hussey)
The Spiders
Straight-ahead, modern rock and roll.
5887 Carson St., Burnaby, BC V5J 2Z7
(604) 432-7653 (Scott Watts)
(604) 4204326 (Paolo Biron)
Spite
Hardcore side project featuring folks from Southwall,
TMCS, and Sparkmarker. Need I say more?
2380 MacKayAve., North Vancouver, BC V7P 2M9
The Steady Thelves
Traditional rock-influenced music you can jump up
and down to while you're drunk.
114-8643 Logan St., Vancouver, BC V6P 3T3
(604) 264-9225 (Justin Clow)
Strain
Vancouver all-star hardcore. 7"s on Overkill Records
and Heartfirst records soon!
PO box 1457 Station 'A', Vancouver, BC V6C 2P7
(604) 8744696 (Eric)
Fax* (604) 8724929
Why dwell in the sound of the past.
335 Moyne Dr., West Vancouver, BC V7S1V6
(604) 92&7472 (Mike Fraser)
Superconductor
Pop geniuses weighed down with ridiculously big
amps and dumb pedals.
317A Cambie St., Vancouver, BC V6B 2N4
(604) 6874488 (their 'manager')
Fax* (604) 6874488
Original rock instrumental band available for your
party or club.
4337 Perciual Ave., Burnaby, BC V5G 3S4
(604) 2984322 (Rich Hagensen)
Tankhog
Best darn rock band in Vancouver!
#4>302 W. 2nd Ave., Vancouver, BC V5Y1C8
(604) 261-2036 (Jaime Nicholson)
Fax* (604) 2634173
Ten Days Late
When they sit on your face it stays sat on: listen,
worship, obey.
2029 E. Broadway,  Vancouver, BC V5N1W6
(604) 2511664 (Lana)
(604) 874-4217 (Renee)
Ten Dead
We are a hard-progressive band with tots of energy
snd dedication to our music.
13236 94th Ave. W., Kirkland, WA 98034 USA
(206) 823-1164 (Kristen Myers)
Ten Feet Tai
Hardcore rednecks from Maple Ridge.
22459 132 Ave., Maple Ridge, BC V2X 7E7
(604) 939-1586 (Colin)
Terror T
Hiphop crew.
3566 W. 18, Vancouver, BC, V6S1B1
(604) 732-4824 (Tara)
There's No Mona
Semi-folk, alternative with a likeable edge. Some
wild electric stuff as well.
*406410 Jervis St., Vancouver, BC
(604) 876-1763 (Lori Dar)
Thumbscrew
Fast and fun punk/hardcore.
11886 82A Ave., Delta, BC V4C 2E6
(604) 8554929 (Dom)
(604) 5964796 (John)
thurs ton
Specializing in Swedish body-sage and non-sexual Local Music Directory
Graphic Design/Photography - Digiboy • 9
touching.
(604; 737-7785 (Bill Arab)
(604) 253-2794 (Dan O'Connell)
Twerdocleb
The punkest band in town.
317A Cambie St., Vancouver, BC V6B 2N4
(604) 6874488 (Keith)
Fax* (604) 6874488
Wretched Ethyl
Punk'n'roll with a hard edge and new sound.
1727 Grant St., Vancouver, BC V5L 2Y6
(604) 2544430 (Charmian Bullen)
Zolty Cracker
Motor-folk.
932 Fresno PL, Coquitlam, BC V3J 6G6
(604) 8734794 (Gilles or Annie)
Quirky, melodic hardcore pop (if di
the Wings that's all we'd cover)
858 Habgood St., Vancouver, BC V4B 4W3
(604) 684-6705 (Kevin Ellis)
(604) 5384142 (Stu Galloway)
11 guitarists, a sax, and a tight-ass rhythm section
(3 basses, 3 drummers), c/o Glen Records.
2380 MacKayAve., Vancouver, BC V7P 2M9
(604) 980-1979 (Ryan Sabourin)
(604) 9374368 (Warren Hill)
Shane Watt
Comfortable, a little crunchy. Good fellows.
*6477 Van Home St., Penticton, BC V2A 4K7
(604) 493-5374 (Shane Watt)
(We Be) Birthin' Cows
A violent support group for romantic problems and
your lips took purple in this light.
Box 56573 Lougheed Pstl Outlet, Burnaby, BC V3J
7W2
(604) 4644665 (Wozzle)
(604) 9374389 (Craig)
The Whonnocklans
Sort of like Helmet and NOFX, harsh riffs, with a
twist of country.
(604) 462-7229 (Darcy Webb)
(604) 467-4651 (Chrisjan Allen)
Windwalker
Still making Meattoaf sound anemic with our smoky
670 Union St., Vancouver, BC V6A 2B9
(604) 266-7504 (Philippe Doebeli)
(604) 255-7647 (Anthony Hempell)
Dash S Bionics
Jargon strings and fremilk
echoes from the eyesauce sector (desk).
(604) 275-9105 (Sinex)
(604) 325-4861 (NeosOllOOlOl)
Fax* (604) 3214109
Ted Dave
CD packaging, illustrations, typesetting, T-shirts,
comic books, etc. for bands, etc...
PO Box 1352, Station 'A', Vancouver, BC V6C 2T2
(604) 873-6350 (Ted Dave)
PMtaf
Artist resource centre: photocopies, printing, design,
graphics - from posters to postcards, tapecovers to
T-shirts.
1451 Hornby St., Vancouver, BC
(604) 6624221 (Pete/Steve)
Fax* (604) 6624224
GRAPHIC DESIGN /
PHOTOGRAPHY
Design, photography, bios, advice and more. 16
years of experience.
*505-1288 Broughton St., Vancouver, BC V6G 2B5
(604) 654-2929 (Ralph)
Fax* (604) 654-1993
Atomos
See this fuckin' mag? I did it myself!
*2-1306 BidwellSt., Vancouver, BC V6G1L2
(604) 685-5419 (Mark)
Geoff Coates
Illustrations, graphic design, CD/cass/7"... etc.
packaging and promo paks.
(604) 733-7925 (Geoff Coates)
the Killer Attack Pen
Copy, Graphix and Design
B&W Specialist
4 cheap eco-friendly printing
Type & Clipart libraries
325-3299
East Vancouver, near 41st
Outraseous, but Reasonable
• 600 dpi quality •
Because... the pen is mightier than
• press kits •
business cards
• cds & tapes *
covers /liner notes
• fanzines *
newsletters
• proposals •
posters
• flyers •
reports
• resumes *
ads
the sword! 10 • Graphic Design/Photography - Eyebyte Design
d^cobdeR
Eyebyte Design
Posters, CDs, cassettes, promos. From trad to cyber
- great graphics, no bullshit.
*3-2910 Commercial Dr., Vancouver, BC V5N 4C9
(604) 8764576 (Dave Laulainen or Dugg
Simpson)
Fax* (604) 876-4576
Hex Design
Good design for good bands, good design for shitty
bands. CDs, Tapes, T-shirts, posters.
*203-1949 W. 5th Ave., Vancouver, BC
(604) 731-1696 (Matt Heximer)
Kats In Leatherjackets
2 Kats will do rockin' photos or rock videos.
(604) 731-7995 (Sylvia)
(604) 327-5029 (Doris)
Mlnt-oShank
Record packaging, posters, promo materials, etc...
"Fuck you, we will do what you tell usl"
*699410 W. Broadway, Vancouver, BC V5Z4C9
(604) 669-6468 (Bill, Rand or Robym)
Fax* (604) 6694468
the machine
mind wrenching text and image generation for cover
art and promotion.
*103-2070 Cornwall, Vancouver, BC V6J 1E1
(604) 734-7966
Leonard Whistler
Professional photography. Promotion, studio and
*213496 E. 2nd Ave., Vancouver, BC VST 4L4
(604) 8734401 (Leonard Whistler)
MANAGERS
Angry A.R.T. Entertainment Group
Exclusive worldwide representation for scaretactix...
video /film production and consultation.
6051 Kathleen Ave., Burnaby, BC V5H 2S5
(604) 4354180 (Destry Galgoozy, mgr.)
(604) 5904879
Bang-On Productions
Representing Redsugar.
*544410 W. Broadway, Vancouver, BC V5Z4C9
(604) 683-3539 (Barry Payne)
Fax* (604) 6834631
Maas-Neotek Blosysterm
We at Maas-Neotek organize cybernetic noise-tec
future-core.
2717 Franklin St., Vancouver, BC V5K1X7
(604) 253-9578 (Darryl Marko or Rex Cobol)
Nettwerk Productions
Sarah McLachlan, Lava Hay, Mystery Machine, Rose
Chronicles, etc...
1250 W. 6th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6H 1A5
(604) 654-2929 (Terry McBride or Ric Arboit)
Fax* (604) 654-1993
O'Day Productions
Manager - Nick Chursinoff.
400-177 W. 7th Ave., Vancouver, BC V5Y1L8
(604) 873-1914 (Ellie O'Day)
Fax* (604) 876-4104
LEGAL SERVICES
Broughton Peterson Yang Anderson
Experienced legal representation of musicians and
songwriters including label contracts, music
publishing and management agreements.
PO Box 49290, *2500-1055 Dunsmuir St.,
Vancouver, BC V7X1S8
(604) 687-6789 (Ken Dangeriield or Kerry Quinlan)
Fax* (604) 683-5317
Jonathan Simkin
Alternative entertainment lawyer.
*513-207 W. Hastings St., Vancouver, BC V6B1H7
(604) 681-1410 (J. Simkin)
Fax* (604) 681-1415
PRODUCERS
Bumfluff Productions
Raw producing / engineering: maximum thrills -
Platter-Puss Productions
Into sounds and energetic music
complete package. Call for info.
1741 Grant St., Vancouver, BC
(604) 252-9908
Stonehenge Productions
Tapes/Bios from original bands welcome.
»210-2211 W. 5th Ave., Vancouver, BC
(604) 732-6716 (Shauna Salisbury)
Fax* (604) 437-1905
Mofo (Mike McLean)
Producer /engineers all styles as long as it's original.
PROMOTERS
Coastal Jazz & Blues Society
Developing the jazz, blues and world music scene
locally, nationally and internationally. Produce Jazz
Festival.
435 W. Hastings, Vancouver, BC V6B1L4
(604) 6824706 (John Orysik)
Fax* (604) 6824704
Good Boy Productions/
Cruel Elephant Concert Productions
Purveyors of fine disco since 1990.
#4 302 W. 2nd Ave., Vancouver, BC V5Y1C8
(604) 2544344 (Paul Moes)
Fax* (604) 254-7239
The Impressarlo
Publicity & promotion.
*20148 Water St., Vancouver, BC V6B1A4
(604) 6824123 (Corinne Koryluk)
Fax* (604) 685-5844
MCA Concerts Canada
Concert promoter.
*40548 Water St., Vancouver, BC V6B1A4
(604) 683-4233 (Jason Miller [talent] or Deb
Macko [marketing])
Fax* (604) 683-4298
Perryscope Concert Productions
Concert promoters, all venues, all sizes.
2241 Oak St., Vancouver, BC V6H 3W8
(604) 731-4621 (lan Noble)
Fax* (604) 731-1318
Red Mountain Rock & Twang Festival
3 day, 18-band music festival. Interested in bands of
country, folk, blues, bluegrass types.
General Delivery, Rossland, BC VOG 1Y0
(604) 362-3366 (Mary Wilkinson)
Timbre Productions Co., Ltd.
Concert promoter.
3725 West 11th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6R 2K7 Local Music Directory
Publications - VOX • 11
(604) 228-1211 (Peter McCulloch)
Fax* (604) 228-1216
Under the Volcano Festival
Youth, arts and activism festival with politically-
active bands, speakers, workshops and art
installations.
Box 215521850 Commercial Dr., Vancouwr, BC
V5N4A0
(604) 255-2787 (Irwin Oostindie)
(604) 255ARTS
PROMOTION AGENTS
Bang-On Productions
Indie-infected publicity agent.
*533410 W. Broadway, Vancouver, BC V5Z4C9
(604) 6834539 (Barry Payne or Ken Beattie)
Fax* (604) 6834631
Residual Volume Distribution & Promotions
Deals exclusively with industrial / noise / ambient
music. Journalist / Promotion / Networking /
General Silliness.
0204453 East 7th Ave., Vancouver, BC V5T1P4
(604) 875-9893 (June Scudeler)
Touring Winnipeg? Call us for promotions, interviews, information and contacts (Winnipeg-based
office). Let's talk!)
20 Kirgsview Dr., Stoney Creek, ON L8J 2K5
(416) 5784414 (Camille or Dina)
or (604) 6694286
PUBLICATIONS
Bark!
Indie magazine dealing with all kinds of music.
*5-709 Corydon Ave., Winnipeg, MN R3M 0W4
(204) 475-5116 (Thorn Sparling)
Fax* (204) 4524576
Canadian Wax Hound Newsletter
Promotes research into Canadian rock history and
knowledge of Canadian music... send S.A.S.E. for
details.
746 Broadview Ave.. Toronto, 0NM4K2P1
(416) 461-3832 (Marc Coulevin)
Closet Rock Entertainment
Magazine promoting signed and unsigned bands
(hard rock/heavy metal/alternative). Reviews,
interviews, mailorder.
5453 Elsom St., Burnaby, BC V5H 2Z7
(604) 4354 760 (Amber Carroll)
Fax* (604) 255-5054
Cryptic Tymes
The fanzine of rock'n'roll and trash culture! Dig it,
baby!
1011 Boren Ave., Suite 114, Seattle, WA 98104
(206) 3254360 (Alan J. Wr&it)
Discorder
That monthly magazine from CiTR-FM
*2334138 SUB Blvd., Vancouver, BC V6T1ZI
(604) 8224017 (Paul Brooks, editor)
Fax* (604) 822-9364
Gee-Zuz
Punk, cannibalism, bias, pseudo-porn, rock, banality,
subversiveness, necrophilia, violence, slag, crap
punk punk...
*297410 W. Broadway, Vancouver, BC V5Z4C9
(604) 7374921 (Crazyman)
Fax* (604) 8724131
Import Index
A free publication featuring imported music reviews,
profiles, interviews and DJ charts.
534 Seymour St., Vancouver. BC V6B 3J5
(604) 6694644 (Robert Shea)
Fax* (604) 669-7978
Mocha Louder
Indie 'zine w/ art, poetry, reviews and interviews w/
local bands and artists. Good exposure.
*205-1663 W. 12th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6J 2E3
(604) 7394077 (Marcel Feldmar)
National Chart
Canada's national alternative / campus trade
magazine. Reviews of independent CDs and
PO Box 332 Willowdale Stn "A", North York, ONM2N
Pandemonium
"An uproar full of confusion and noise", a monthly
music and entertainment magazine from Tacoma.
917 Pacific Ave., Suite 311, Tacoma, WA 98402
(206) 272-3319 (Jeff Daniel, publisher)
(206) 2724824
Self Esteem Queen
Gals write. Gals draw. Gals get together. Gals send
stuff.
153 E. 7th Ave., Vancouver, BC
(604) 873-5440 (Usa)
Statlk
Quarterly publication of CKUT-FM at McGill
University. Circ. 10,000.
3480 McTavish St., Suite B-15, Montreal, PQ H3A
The Province (City Desk)
Province columnist: 20-something pop culture.
2250 Granville St., Vancouver, BC V6H 3G2
(604) 732-2030 (Mike Roberts)
Fax* (604) 732-2099
Monthly tablwd published by CKCU-FM. Circ.
10,000.
1233 Colonel By Dr., *517, Ottawa, ON K1S 5B6
(613) 788-2898
Fax* (613) 788-4060
VOX
Monthly music and arts magazine, published by
CJSW in Calgary. Circ. 15,000.
»217, MacEwan Hall, U. of C, Calgary. AB T2N1N4
(403) 2204904 (lan Chiclo)
1X9 12 • Radio - CFRC (Queen's University)
Di^ORDER
RADIO
CFRC (Queen's University)
3000 watts FM.
Carruthers Hall, Queen's U., Kingston, ON K71 3N1
(613) 545-2121 (Oksana Horbach)
Fax* (613) 5454300
ATTENTION
INDIE BANDS!
The HMV music
store at Richmond
Centre is looking to
sell independent
product on a consignment basis.
Qualifications are
as follows:
• Product should be
professionally packaged (i.e. case/cover)
and wrapped, if possible (although this
service is provided).
•Good sound quality.
INTERESTED?
WE ARE!
Call Sally,
Monday-Friday at
(604) 276-8200
CFRO (Coop Radio)
5500 watts FM, FM cable.
337 Carrall St., Vancouver, BC V6B 2J4
(604) 6844494 (lan Pringle)
Fax* (604) 681-5310
CFRU (University of Guelph)
250 watts FM.
500 Gordon ST., Guelph, ON NIG 2W1
(519) 824-4120 (Kevin Lynn)
Fax* (519) 763-9603
CFUV (University of Victoria)
2290 watts FM, cable FM. Program guide 'Offbeat"
published monthly.
P0 Box 3035, Victoria, BC V8W 3P3
(604) 7214702 (Elspeth Haughton)
Fax* (604) 7214728
CHMR (Memorial University)
50 watts, cable FM.
BoxA119, Memorial University, St. John's, NFA1C
5S7
(709) 7374777(Brad Jones)
Fax* (709) 7374743
CHRW (University of Western Ontario)
3000 watts FM, cable FM. Program guide "Airshift*
published bknonthly.
Room 222, UCC Buildirg, UW0, London, ON N6A
1P1
(519) 6614601
CHRY (York University)
50 watts FM.
Rm. 258A Vanier, 4700 Keele St., North York, ON
M3J1P3
(416) 736-5293 (Gary Verrinder)
Fax* (416) 736-5700
CHU0 (University of Ottawa)
18,200 watts FM, cable FM.
Suite 227, 85 University, Ottawa, ON KIN 6N5
(613) 564-2903 (Bob McCarthy)
Fax* (613) 564-5479
CIMN
Cable FM.
550 University Ave., Charlottetown, PEI CIA 4P3
(902) 566-0417 (Colin Cheverie)
Fax* (902) 5664979
CITR (University of British Columbia)
1800 watts FM, cable FM.
*2334138 SUB Blvd., Vancouver, BC V6T1Z1
(604) 822-3017 (Justin Leigh [CD/LP] or Dale
Sawyer [cass.])
Fax* (604) 822-9364
CJAM (University of Windsor)
50 watts FM, cable FM.
401 Sunset Avenue., Windsor, ON N9B 3P4
(519) 2584786 (Brendan Hickey)
Fax* (519) 2534871
CJSF (Simon Fraser University)
cable FM @ 93.9 MHz.
TC 216, SFU, Burnaby, BC V5A 1S6
(604) 291-3727 (John Clark)
Fax* (604) 291-4455
CJSR (University of Alberta)
900 watts, cable.
Room 224, SUB, U. of A., Edmonton, AB T6G 2J7
(403) 492-5244 (Craig Elliott)
Fax* (403) 4924643
CJSW (University of Calgary)
1900 watts FM, cable. Program guide 'VOX*
published monthly.
Room 127, MacEwan Hall, U. ofC, Calgary, AB T2N
1N4
(403) 2204904 (Jaime Frederick)
CKCU (Carieton University)
12,000 watts, cable FM. Program guide *Trans-FM"
published monthly.
1233 Colonel By Dr., *517 UC, Ottawa, ON K1S
5B6
(613) 788-2898 (Shawn Scallen)
Fax* (613) 788-4060
CKDU (Dalhousie University)
50 watts, cable FM.
6136 University Ave., Hatfax. NS B3H 4J2
(902) 494-6479 (Colin MacKenzie)
CKLN (Ryerson)
250 watts FM, cable FM.
RoomA74, Jorgenson Hail, 380 Victoria St.,
Toronto, ON M5B1W7
(416) 595-1477
CKMS (University of Waterloo)
50 watts FM, cable FM.
200 University Ave. West, Waterloo, ON N2L 3G1
(519) 886-2567 (Eva Rucki or Terry Walters)
CKUM (Acadia University)
50 watts FM, cable FM.
159 Avenue Massey, Moncton, NB E1A 3E9
(506) 8584485 (Daniel Robichaud)
Fax* (506) 858-4324
CKUT (McGill University)
5700 watts FM, cable FM. Program guide "Statik*
published quarterly.
3480 McTavish St., Suite B-15, Montreal, PQ H3A
1X9
CKWR
250 watts FM.
PO Box 216, Waterloo, ON N2J 3Z9
(519) 886-9878 (Bernie Sadilek)
Fax* (519) 8864090
CRSG
Cable FM.
1455 DeMaisonneuve Blvd., #647, Montreal, PQ
H3G1M8
(514) 848-7401 (Anuska Garcia)
Fax* (514) 8484494
CUIT (University of Toronto)
15,000 watts FM.
91 St. George St., Toronto, ON M5S 2E8
(416) 5954909 (Ken Stowar)
Fax* (416) 595-5604 Local Music Directory
Record Labels - Zulu Records • 13
<3p*
'j£2eJ_f£_.
RECORD LABELS
Alda House Records
Latest releases: Faith & Disease and Colour Theory
7" singles.
PO Box 520053, Salt Lake City, UT 841524053
USA
(801) 4844607 (Paul or Steph)
Bang-On Records
Representing Facepuller.
*544410 W. Broadway, Vancouver, BC V5Z 4C9
(604) 6834539 (Barry Payne or Ken Beattie)
Fax* (604) 6834631
Cargo Records
Independent label, import/export distributor.
Locations in Canada, U.S. and U.K.
*544410 W. Broadway, Vancouver, BC V5Z4C9
(604) 6834539 (Barry Payne or Ken Beattie)
Fax* (604) 6834631
Helping our friends so they can help their friends
and so on, and so on...
PO Box 52023, North Vancouver, BC V7J 3T2
(604) 2534487 (Jason Schreurs)
(604) 255-2491 (Andy Gronberg)
Coffee House Music Productions
Specialize in folk/roots music.
PO Box 20101,  Kelowna, BC VIY 9H2
(604) 8680629 (Tyrone Sandorsky)
Fax* (604) 8614948
(604) 860-5924 (Stephen Austin)
Compression Records
Indie label with four artists. Diverse styles and
honest people. Some distribution.
1010 Seymour St., Vancouver, BC V6B 4Y4
(604) 681-0606 (Murray)
Final Notice Records
Soundtracks to the revolution, a label with a whole
world scope.
PO Box 1457, Station 'A', Vancouver, BC V6C 2P7
(604) 525-3570 (Kim Kinakin)
Freq. Scene Recordings
Pitifully small cassette label releasing quality indie
punk and pop (so far).
2054 E. Broadway,  Vancouver, BC
(604) 255-2711 (Mike McLean)
Glen Records
No matter how shitty you are, we will sign you. Send
a demo. Let's party.
2380 Mac Kay Ave., North Vancouver, BC V7P 2M9
(604) 980-1979 (Ryan Sabourin)
(604) 9374368 (Warren Hill)
David Goebel
Brand new label with a focus on goth / experimental
/ ethereal. First release: Faith & Desire CD.
PO Box 2721, Seattle, WA 98111-2721 USA
(206) 340-1641 (David Goebel)
Fax* (206) 5454831
Gopher Productions
Newly-formed label specializing in new age and
fantasy rock.
(604) 737-2634 (Marianne Lechuk)
Fax* (604) 737-2634
Humongous Records
From hardcore to dance: anything that sticks.
*407-960 Jervis St., Vancouver, BC V6E 2B9
(604) 6694997 (Dennis Pyo)
LSD
Know anyone on LSD?
201 W. 7th Ave., Vancouver, BC V5Y1L9
(604) 879-7625 (Bruce Levins, [president] or Kirk
Bentham, [A&R J)
Fax* (604) 8734718
Mint Records
Sign bands, make records, sell records, make more
records. That's the idea, anyways.
*669410 W. Broadway, Vancouver, BC V5Z 4C9
(604) 6694468 (Bill or Rand)
Fax* (604) 6694468
Nettwerk Productions
We're not big fans of the music industry.
1250 W. 6th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6H1A5
(604) 654-2929 (Tonni Maruyama, Ric Arboit or
Marc Jowett)
Fax* (604) 654-1993
Oh Yah! Records
Indie record label dealing with all kinds of acts...
self-distributed.
*5-709 Corydon Ave., Winnipeg, MN R3M 0W4
(204) 475-5116 (Thorn Sparling)
Fax* (204) 4524576
Outersanctum
Label releasing techno/trance material. Live acts
promotion/other artforms.
1911-1644 Nelson St., Vancouver, BC V6G 2Y9
(604) 662-3743 (Dreamdoktor H)
Scratch Records
Starmakers, starshakers, handshakers and orgasm
fakers. No demo considered without 8x10 glossy.
317A Cambie St., Vancouver, BC V6B 2N4
(604) 6874488 (Jamie Anderson)
Fax* (604) 6874488
Temple North Records
Maker of rock.
PO Box 160124018 Mountain Hwy, North
Vancouver, BC V7J 3S9
(604) 986-7663 (Brent)
Trackshun Industries
Pork Queen, Horsey and friends. This is not a
request for your crappy demo cassette!
1285 E. 18th Ave., Vancouver, BC V5V1H3
(604) 874-9151 (Justice Schanfarber)
Way-Out Records
Hanson Bros., Shovelhead, Vinaigrettes, Show
Business Giants, Squirrels, BUM, Scott Henderson,
and Pigment Vehicle.
#102-535 Yates St., Vancouver, BC V8W 2Z6
Zulu Records
Indie record label: Bob's Your Uncle, Lung. Coal,
Perfume Tree.
1869 W.4th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6J1M4
(604) 7384232 (Kevin Smith)
Fax* (604) 736-9836
PACIFIC MUSIC
*OU CAN COMPLAIN ABOUT
r THE STRUGGLE TO
SUCCEED IN THE MUSIC
BUSINESS —OR YOU CAN
TAKE AN ACTIVE ROLE IN
ITS EVOLUTION.
ETS MAXIMIZE OUR
RESOURCES, AMPLIFY OUR
_ INTERNATIONAL PROFILE,
' AND LET B.C. MUSIC BE
HEARDI
*r (604) 873-1914/Fax (604) 876-4104
♦ B.C. representative for FACTOR
♦ Sponsors of Music West
♦ Producers of Demo Listen Derby
♦ Publishers of Pacific Music News
♦ Various member discounts
♦ Promoting made-in-B.C. music,
copyright reform, networking,
music career opportunities 14 • Record Stores - Area 51
DfcOBDER
RECORD STORES
Area 51
Godlike music culture for you. Imports - indie and
other shit.
163 Station St., Duncan, BC V9L 1M8
(604) 7464869 (Gordon Chow)
Fax* (604) 7464894
Funhouse Records
New and used cool indies/locals on all formats -
send us free stuff!
*102-535 Yates St., Victoria, BC V8W2Z6
(604) 389-2828 (Rick Andrews or Kevin Lee)
Sam the Record Man
We promote all local independent music. Product is
displayed equally, great exposure for your band.
568 Seymour St., Vancouver, BC V6B 3J9
(604) 6844722 (Rob or Selim)
Fax* (604) 684-5485
Scratch Records
Rock of the grunge, punk, pop and col
An oasis of experimental new wave.
317A Cambie St., Vancouver, BC V68 2N7
(604) 687-0488 (Keith Parry)
Fax* (604) 6874488
Zulu Records
Record store.
1869 W.4th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6J1M4
(604) 7384232 (Grant McDonagh)
STUDIOS
Downtown Sound Studios
164rack recording studio with big rooms and tots of
MIDI gear.
1010 Seymour St., Vancouver, BC V6B 4Y4
(604) 681-0606 (Murray or Paul)
Warm friendly atmosphere wtth attitude, great st
exceptional geart
1234 W. 6th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6H 145
(604) 734-1217 (Valerie Biggin)
8-track studio with MIDI gear.
3566 W. 18th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6S1B1
(604) 7324824 (Adam 'Bootsy- Sloan)
Year-round bookings of live acts. Punk, metal and
other loud noises. Send demos please.
Royal Albert Arms Hotel, Winnipeg, MB R3B1E7
(204) 9434433 (Wayne Towns)
(204) 956-5662 (Jen Attemeyer)
The South Wa*
All ages coop coffee house.
Lonsdale Recreation Centre, North Vancouver, BC
(604) 9804289 (Triaha Kelly)
VENUES
Funky Toad
Occassional all-night gigs with top local bands.
2786 E. Hastings St., Vancouver, BC
(604) 433-5036 (Don Jeevious)
2 24-track analog studios w/2" tape, some digital
accessories. Focus on independent record
production.
3448 Commercial Drive, Vancouver, BC V5N 4E8
(604) 8754821 (Cecil English)
Renegade Productions Inc.
Music recording and rehearsal facility. 25 studios.
Suite *401-990 Homer St., Vancouver, BC V6B 2W7
(604) 6854435
Slack Studio
24 track digital recording. 32 channel mixer and lots
of other goodies!
c/o Nettwerk, 1250 W. 6th Ave., Vancouver, BC V6H
1A5
(604) 6542929 or (604) 7334194 (Simon
Fax* (604) 654-1993
Sound house Recording
The only built-frortvthe_round_p, Chips Davis
designed, purple studio in Seattle!
7023-15th Ave. N.W.. Seattle, WA 98117-5502
(206) 7844848 (Scott Crane, manager)
Vancouver Studios
Recording and post-production studios.
3955 Graveley St., Burnaby, BC V5C 3T4
(604) 2914978 (Roger Levens or Tilde Cameron)
Fax* (604) 2914909
Word of Mouth Productions
Recording studio offering 16/8/2-track 4 DAT. Way
4230 Leary WayN.W., Seattle, WA 98107
(206) 789-5086 (Richard Hinklin)
Fax* (206) 3244242
MISCELLANEOUS
The Alternative BBS (computer bulletin board)
Get your modems hooked to the Alternative. Music-
based, online concert guide, 2400 BPS.
(604) 255-2431
Bundu Mondocorp Somewhat Unlimited (DAT
rental, recording)
Live digital recording, small-run cassette duplication,
DAT rentals.
1254 E. 8th Ave., Vancouver, BC
(604) 8794481 (Dan, Dave or Adam)
Kats In Leatherjackets (video)
2 Kats will do rockin' photos or rock videos.
(604) 731-7995 (Sylvia)
(604) 327-5029 (Doris)
Maelstrom Guitars (musical instrument
builders)
Construction and repair of fine acoustic instruments,
steelstring, classical guitars, dobros, bouzoukis,
dulcimers.
1424 McLean Drive, Vancouver, BC V5L 3N4
(604) 2544870 (Dave Cureton)
(604) 254-9529 (Lawrence Nyberg)
George Scott (stage/lights/sound)
Lighting design / sound / visuals / documentation /
#2-791 E. 59th Ave., Vancouver, BC V5X 1T3
(604) 325-3296 (George Scott)
Welner Boy (video)
Music videos, video presentation, video loops that
will drop-kick your neural senses to Jesus.
(604) 874-6808 (Craig McEwen) UNDER THE VOLCANO
IS EVERYTHING LOLLAPALOOZA IS NOT.
Fourth Annual
FESTIVAL
Cates Park, North Vancouver, B.C.
August 8,1993 • 12 noon - 9 pm
Resist the Pepsi generation, Much Mucus,
Perryscope, corporate
exploitation of our culture, and learn about
healthy alternatives...
come check out our
annual festival of
music and youth
activism.
Tune to CiTR 101.9 fM or Co-op Radio 102.7 FM
for Festival line-up and information.
Fifteen musical acts from around North America, Bulgaria, and
Guatemala • Hardcore • rap/hip-hop • folk/ethnic • 30 political info
tables • a huge organic food tent to raise money for artists fees •
8 workshops on political issues • children's programming inside a
huge volcano • participatory art stations • art installations and
displays • a poetry walk ♦ beach and forest in a 55-acre park • 20
minutes outside of downtown Vancouver • free shuttle bus
UNDER THE VOLCANO is produced by 80 volunteers and staff. Ifyou would like
to volunteer and receive a festival t-shirt. organic foods and post-festival
party, call ARTEST at 255-ARTS.
The cost of
corporate
culture...
LOLLAPALOOZA
$36.75
CANADA DAY PARTY
$31.75
PETER GABRIEL
$38.75
ROADSIDE ATTRACTION
$38.00
UNDER THE VOLCANO
$3.00 DONATION Another 13 weeks of friendly
competition, jokes-for-beer
and amazing prizes starts up in
September. So dust off the
instruments and start annoying
the neighbours, 'coz CiTR is
now accepting demos for
Shindig '93. You should be able
to play a 25-35 minute set of
original material... any style,
any genre.
Nora, fhe three-eyed Shindig hostess, has her ears perked
for the newest sounds eminating from Vancouver...
Send your tape to: SHINDIG '93, c/o CiTR Radio,
#233-6138 SUB Blvd., Vancouver, B.C., V6T1Z1
Don't forget to include your contact names and numbers!
For more information, contact Justin or Linda at 822-3017.