 ><s°*
SPf
o  e :
>C
IronicJ Bubonicl Supersonic!
A sudsy novella padded into an
opera with scads of classical
music channelling, crystals and
all that new age crap. It was a
tragedy... about an angel named
Bubbles sent to U.B.C as
punishment from Gad. That's
right  Hymn.
Act   I
-,'//
fs
mil
«gr
. *o«
.<£
h>*fr°
The opera opens as the sun sets
on the big man on campus.
Bubbles enrolls in you-name-it
101. Okay, like one of those
overpriced passion-kiwi -
loganberry faintly tinted
mineral water drinks, Bubbles
rose' to the top of her class.
Sudddenly revolution breaks out.
Why? Shit like this happens all
the time in operas. Women
Scream! Men are their usual
asshole selves! Apparently,
children were seen but not
heard. A bomb blows up!!!!
Some hall catches on fire.
Bubbles escapes, the revolution
goes flat, the plot thins out.
Then....Drought! Famine!
Pestilencel (At this point,
please ' discard all logic) A
roving band of Irishmen swept
into the town, leaving a path of
Lucky Charms (don't cha know.)
Purple harps, pink darts, dark
Gulness.
Intermission
(not a second too soon)
Act- II
(doesn't happen)
The audience gets fed up with
all this fecal matter and
leaves.  Each  picking up a copy
.M
OO
f ^§»<Y.
THAT
MAGAZINE
:     FROM
;^CITR   FM 102
o SA
' &*c
•H^fl
~JA
vpREE! 2nd skin
FALL   88 WINTER  89
FASHION
°
z
ll
<
IF YOU KNOW WHERE IT IS,
YOU KNOW WHERE IT'S AT.
W
00
CD
E
o
£
CO 5 AIRHEAD
readers who write
6  IT'S TRUE
and it's happening
32 PROFILE
corsage
38 UNDER REVIEW
tons o' reviews and stuff
42  LOCAL MOTION
in a city near you
43  ON THE DIAL
every person's guide to citr
45 SPINLIST
the hipper sounds
8 NOW LISTEN HERE...
Those   in   the   Know   Predict
12 SHINDIG '88
It's Back and Bigger Than Ever
16 MALCOLM'S INTERVIEW
Talkin' About a Root Revolution
18 WOMEN OF THE FOLK FEST
Interviews with Phranc and Faith Nolan
20  DOIN'THE VANCOUVER
SHUFFLE
A New Theatre Company Fights Back
24 CHEAP MOVIES
How One Person Realizes Good Times
Cheaply
29 LEGAL SCAM
Getting the Most Out of Your Student
Loan
30 A MAINTENANCE
DRINKER'S GUIDE TO THE BAY
AREA
What Do San Francisco Watering
Outlets Have to Offer?
36 A PLEASURE PACKAGE
What Would You Expect in One?
46 TALES OF THE WILD
(NORTH)WEST
Babylon and The Sonics
SEPTEMBER 1988*1SSUE #68
EDITOR Kevin Smith
ASSISTANT EDITOR David Firman
WRITERS Esther Hadley, Pat Carroll, Rob
Lorenz, Lloyd Uliana, Andrea Lupini,
Michael Grigg, John Frymire, Patrick Mokrane,
John Ruskin, Janis McKenzie, Bill Mullan,
Gavin Walker, Norm Van Rassel, Matt
Richards, Pete Lutwyche, Ian Crutchley, Paul
Steenhuisen, Peter Courtemanche
ART DIRECTOR Marty George
ARTISTS Roxanna Bikadoroff, Alan George,
Karen Shea, Debora Brundrett
PHOTOGRAPHER Mandel Ngan
COVER Joe Payne, Miles Harrison
PRODUCTION MANAGER Pat Carroll
LAYOUT BY Teresa Cole, Bill Baker, Viola
Funk, Karen Shea, Randy Iwata
PROGRAM GUIDE BY Kathryn Hayashi
WORDPROCESSING Barb Wilson, Viola Funk,
Karen Long
TYPESETTING AMS Desktop Publishing
Dept., Ted Aussem, Alexandra Johnson
ADVERTISING MANAGER Matt Richards
ACCOUNTS AND SUBSCRIPTION GUY Randy
Iwata
DISTRIBUTION MANAGER John Frymire
PUBLISHER Harry Hertscheg
Discorder is That Magazine from CiTR 101.9 Fm.
It's published monthly by the Student Radio Society
of the University of British Columbia. It's printed
in Surrey, Canada. Discorder Magazine prints what
it wants to, but pledges to (try and) put the CiTR On
The Dial program guide and Spin List record chart in
every issue. It also vows to circulate 17,500 copies by
the first of each month. Twelve-month subscriptions
are $12(US) in the States, $20(CDN) elsewhere.
Make money orders or certified cheques payable to
Discorder Magazine. All written, drawn or photographed contributions are welcome. But don't expect to get anything back. To pick up CiTR or to
improve your reception, just put a little effort into it.
Perhaps you need a better antenna? If you're a
subscriber to Rogers, Shaw or Delta Cable, turn us on
at 101.9 cable fm. Office hours for CiTR, Discorder
and the CiTR Mobile Sound Rental are Monday-
Friday, 10am-4pm. Please call then. The number is
228-3017. For the News/Sports Room, call 224-
4320. But if you want to talk to the DJ, call 228-2487
or 228-CiTR. CO-OP RADIO
CFRO FM 102.7
Sunday, October 9th, 1988
7:00   p.m.   the COMMODORE
Tickets VTC/C80. Eaton's, Woodwards, Info 2804411, Charge By Phone 2804444, Info Centres in Major Mails and A.M.S
Ticket Boi Offices. U A t Campus, Also: BK Printers, Canfcbean Market High We, Ebony Eyes,
ALMWIiEPtOOUCTK* c/o CITR
6138 SUB Blvd.
Vancouver, B.C
V6T 2A5
ANSWERS, ANSWERS, ANSWERS
Dear Airhead,
Ah. Someone who feels like I do. "You
only live once" pointed out that people seem to
think a person carrying a camera is—ta-da! A
tourista!—No no no. A slap on the hand to all
who have such a view. There are some of us out
there who live in Vancouver and also possess a
strange attraction to cameras.
I do enjoy reading Discorder and listening
to CiTR (although it seems a bit bizarre at times).
And can anyone tell me if the band known as
"Roots Roundup" have any sort of LP or tape?
I've seen them a couple of times live and enjoyed
it very much.
These short stories in Discorder are pretty—
um, what's the word?—well they're not really
run-of-the-mill short stories.
What is the meaning of the colour scheme
used in Discorder? Do purple and green have
some hidden meaning I am unaware of? And is
Tiffany some sort of devious plot by subversive
people to infiltrate the radio stations and brainwash these young teenagers? Perhaps there are
subliminal messages in her videos? Something
must be going on, her records are selling and
people are going to her concerts. I think it's a
conspiracy against real music.Anyway keep up
the good work at CITR (why is the "i" small and
not a capital?)!!
If my head doesn't blow up from wearing a
Lillian headband I'll write again. Thanx.
Dressed In black
P.S. Is it cool to just have one name? Like
Tiffany, or Pebbles, or Candi, etc. etc.? Beware
thou the mutants on the radio dial!
Yes, Roots Roundup have a cassette release
which can probably be gotten most easily through
the band themselves at 3351 Quebec Place,
Vancouver, V5V3H6. They are having a party on
Sept. 16 at the Lux to celebrate the release of their
new cassette which will be available in the appropriate stores. The meaning behind the colour
scheme in Discorder is so subtle yet intricate that
we ourselves do not fully comprehend its significance within the larger scheme of things. All we
at Discorder have to say regarding Tiffany is that
this much maligned singer is truly a talented
artist and one hot babe to boot. What small "I" ?
X MARKS THE SPOT
Dear Airhead,
Re: Christopher David's letter in the July
Discorder.
Hey Chris, got a better one for ya. Ronald
Wilson Reagan can also be re-arranged to spell
Insane Anglo Warlord. Ever seen a name with so
many demonic connotations?
Harry X. Truman
WRONG PLACE, WRONG TIME
Dear Airhead:
Life of a Paranoid Cynic
Someone on Robson asked me if he could
borrow a cigarette today, he wouldn't take it. The
"coolest of cool" only smoke Dunhill. I've never
till today heard of the clothing store whose slogan
says "Alternative looks, for alternative people". I
did look around to see if I could find a mass of hip
people looking alternative in precisely the same
unique alternative way. Do you think I saw them?
What of the poor starving artist who begged me
for two dollars yesterday? I followed his faded
torn Levi's home and waited. Sure enough he
came out a few minutes later his feet clad in shoes
you can only buy at the place where one can be
"enlightened" with a peek at the future. I checked
later—the cost: one hundred and fifty dollars. I
continued to follow him where he made his
"appearance over cappuccino" at "The Cafe".
"Heaven forbid," I overheard, "that anyone
would be caught dead at that place on Seymour".
So I checked it out again and understood why everyone wore masks and sat hunched in the comers
of the shrouded neon gloom. "Did you hear they * re
giving lessons on attitude at a certain art school in
town. You can go there two nights a week for four
months and get a diploma you can sew on your
jacket"
I cringed at the laughter, so much for enrolling there this fall.
No longer do I confess to being a vegetarian
since I was accused of following a trend and
depriving myself of protein. No longer would I be
caught dead in a rock or mineral store; health food
store; downtown nightclub; uptown health club;
late night bistro; second hand junk store. Why just
last week someone accused me of being an intellectual at the local bookstore. My warning to you
is watch yourself when you're at the record store.
Could you imagine the humiliation of running
into someone you know in the wrong aisle? For
God's sake stay away from your local supermarket. Haven't you heard they're the latest pick-up
pits?
I was planning on changing residence but
I'm confused. Kits is too cosmic, North Shore too
nouveau riche, West End is pretentious and East
Van is too raunchy. I haven't even considered the
suburbs; everyone knows only trash lives out
there.
What does that leave us to eat, or wear, to
live at, or do. I have resorted to donning a wig,
some shades and skulking around in long boots
and a trenchcoat.
I live in constant fear of being caught in the
wrong place at the wrong time, wearing the wrong
clothes and using...Gawd, yesterday's slang, while
I listen to the wrong Walkman with headphones
that never fucking work properly anyway.
You didn't expect me to sign
my name did ya?
Huh?
THANKS VERY MUCH
Dear Airhead,
This is the most vile, disgusting, confusing,
hard to understand, opinionated, scary piece of
publication I have ever laid eyes on. Keep up the
good work! I was kind of getting sick of Teen
Magazine.
Lola Strickland
Savannah, Georgia
USA
UMMM, I THINK...
Dear Sir or Madam,
I am wondering if you can give me some
assistance in tracking down a record or the name
of the artist, etc.
Approximately two years ago I was listening to your radio in the late afternoon on a weekday and some music came on that was quite weird
but really interesting. I have no idea who or what
it was and can only try to give you a description of
the music and hope that you will know who I am
referring to. The music started out sounding like
a train station with something coming over a PA
system in the background and people milling
around. Then I believe it progressed to a train
going down the tracks making clickety-clack
sounds, and periodically some horns (as in brass
section I think) would make a supposed train kind
of hom sound, then further along there was some
chicken noise. It would have to be described as
"bizarre", but it was really hilarious and my kids
and I enjoyed it. We had taped it at the time, but
have since either lost the tape or taped over it, but
I hoped that perhaps this vague description would
ring a bell with someone at the station and I could
find out the name of the artist and where to get a
copy of the record or whatever.
I hope you can be of help and look forward
to hearing from you.
Sincerely,
Judle Rousselle
Ha, ha, ha. Ya right. Anyone?
AND THANK YOU
Dear Freaks and Geeks,
As I sit here, flipping thru your rag, I find
myself, a salivating metal (slash hardcore, now
with all this crossover shit going on) maniac being
utterly enthralled with this collection of utterly
biased bullshit. This is exactly what the metal
scene needs! A publication with balls! I find all of
the so-called "metal" fanzines unfit for wrapping
rotten fish. Poison Poison Poison, Que Crue
Crue, Ratt, etc. It's enough to make a thrasher cut
lu^er hair. The bands out now should pay more
attention to heavy fast playing and less to the new
edition of Vogue. True, Metallica and Nuclear
Assault still carry the bangers' banner, but I find
these bands a dying breed. Whatever happened to
local fave's Witches' Hammer and Ground Zero?
The local scene has me crying in my beer. I long
for the days when Motorhead was Motorhead, and
Poison was just another word for bad acid. I am
glad to see Power Chord still going strong, although I don't have cable and only catch the show
when possible. So more power to you Airhead,
you fucking fabulous freak, and more Power Chord
to ya! ARRRRRRRGGGH!
A Fellow Freak,
Jeremy Galan
P.S. The metal scene needs an antidote, and its
name is SLAYER!!!!
GIVE IT BACK
Greedy "Skate Punks"!
You stole our tape! On August 9, on the steps
of the Vancouver Art Gallery, at approximately
11:05 pm, you (about 16 years old, skinny, one
length inch long straight bleach blond hair, grey
poncho, soft features, perpetual sneer) and you
(same age, medium length brown hair, a bit taller
in blue sweat shirt). BOTH OF YOU STOLE MY
TAPE RECORDER FROM BEHIND MY BACK
AS I PERFORMED Environmental MUSIC ON
THE SIDEWALK.
WHY!
I had been playing steadily for about two
SEPTEMBER 1988   5 THE FOURTH ANNUAL VANCOUVER
FE ST\/VAL
I»v A *:*v-P
A ten day extravaganza of alternative theatre
and performance art
SEPTEMBER 9-18
Detailed program information in the September 2nd issue
of the Georgia Straight
MICHAEL THOMPSON
BOOKSELLER
FANTASY & SCIENCE FICTION
434 West Pender Street
Vancouver, B.C.
Canada V6B 1T5
682-6885
DISCORDER
^S^-,
„JT
hours and was concentrating on resolving a collected piece I had been building for 85 minutes on
a ninety minute tape. Then both of you went
behind me and ripped off my document THAT
WAS WRONG. GIVE IT BACK.
49 has been performing for nearly two months
now and we feel this tape recording is an intrinsically priceless and valuable record of our music
We would imagine that, to you, the tape is
little more than another piece of stolen property at
your disposal containing little or no value.
You know this is true. SO LISTEN.
You both know who you are and you're
reading this right now. SO RETURN THE TAPE.
Go ahead. Keep the Realistic Walkman if you feel
you must have it We don't really care anymore. If
that's what you had to steal, and you want it, it's
yours. BUT THE TAPE ISN'T YOURS. It belongs to us. So would you kindly give it back...
No cops, kiddies. No questions asked. Just
return the tape to the address of this station, leave
it at the Zen on Howe with a message, or leave an
anonymous message to the machine at 683-7238
telling us where we can pick it up.
Do you have any conscience whatsoever?
Ambivalently yours,
49
DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD
it's "rlrueV
Well, the BIG news this month is, of
course, SHINDIG. Details of this wonderful extravaganza brought to you by CiTR can be found
on page 12 of this month's issue. A late addition
to the spoils for the 1 st place finisher comes from
FLUID SOUND STUDIOS who have kindly donated 24 hours of pre-production time. Other
CiTR presentations for the month of September
begin on the 6th with a live broadcast from the
Plaza at UBC beginning at 8:15am and continuing
until 5:00pm; the broadcast will feature two 45
minute performances (at 11:30am and 12:30pm)
by BOB'S YOUR UNCLE. Also on the 6th,
CiTR brings to you ROBYN HITCHCOCK at
the Commodore. Other presentations are: OVERSOUL SEVEN with THE LYRES at the Town
Pump on the 15th; BILLY BRAGG at the Commodore on the 23rd and 24th; PERE UBU and
JOHN CALE at Club Soda on the 25th; and
WEDDINGS, PARTIES, ANYTHING in the
SUB BALLROOM on the 29th.
Hey, who says CiTR doesn't do its
part for the youth of Canada. Check-out a feature
about the station on the Rogers Cable 4 show
ACCENT ON YOUTH to be seen on Sunday,
September 4th. Tune in and discover the truth.
More matters of truth...CiTR has recently
uncovered a shocking conspiracy that is sweeping
the Vancouver area. We must stop it now! CiTR
has learned that there are several people who not
only think they can't pick us up but are also telling
others that "you can't pick up CiTR." We have no
idea how many hundreds or even thousands of
potential listeners have been brainwashed by these
lies. We must set the record straight—now! It's
not our measly 49-watt signal that stops you from
picking us up, it's your lack of perseverance and
resourcefulness (ie. your sloth) that is the root of
the problem. For tips on how to pick up CiTR,
turn to page 43. To find out how you can win a
bunch of fun prizes just by being able to pick up
CiTR, turn to page 31. We also have prizes for a
lucky person who can prove that they can't pick us
up. Help stop the conspiracy. CONCEPT 2   New Age Cafe Restaurant
"An Intellectual Oasis in the Heart of Downtown"
"Healthy Taste, Intelligent Ambience, Art Gallery, Student Budget"
Live Classical Music - every Friday night Starting 7:30 p.m.
Sept. 02, Penguin String Quartet
Sept. 09, Molto Viola
Sept. 16, Appassionata String Quartet
Sept. 23, Penguin String Quartet
Sept. 30, Appassionata String Quartet
2 FORI
Entrees With This Ad
Valid Until Oct 1,1988
You have seen other restaurants, now see the 2nd Concept in food and ambience.
Breakfast, Lunch, Before & After Theatre, Dinner 7:30 a.m. -10:00 p.m.
724, Nelson St. (at Granville)
       222-4444	
Vancouver East Cultural Centre &
Vancouver Folk Music Festival present
"These master jugglers are hilarious.
Drop everything & go to see them."
Gene Shalit, Today Show
"Their act really flies"
r York Times
THz FLYinC
KARAflAZOV
5ROTH=W
September 6-17   8:30
Family matinees - September 10 & 17
Vancouver East Cultural Centre
1895 Venables
Tickets VTC/CBO 280-4444 Reservations 245-9578 NOW LISTEN
HERE ...
DISCORDER asked some CiTRbigshot types to
let us all know just what the heck is going to
happen in this wacky world of ours regarding
music and other stuff.
Matt Richards
BATTERSEA PARK GARDENS
WEDNESDAYS 10:00am-l:00pm
I predict that welder's caps will be the next
big fashion item. Not masks, caps.
Pete Lutwyche
NEON MEATE DREAM
TUESDAYS 6:30-9:00pm
I tell you, Nusrat Fateh All Khan, the
brightest star of Qawwali music, is going to
be big. Bigger than Elvis. Catch him on my
show before he gets on the CFOX playlist.
Ian Crutchley and Paul Steenhuisen
ARE YOU SERIOUS MUSIC?
SUNDAYS 8:00am-noon
Paul: It's very difficult to predict anything
happening in the field of music, which is the
least hip, least exposed, but most stimulating
of the arts. It is not a new idea to say that
many people are not particularly interested
in the serious music of the Twentieth Century. So what. Many neat things are still
happening. Hopefully Philip Glass will revert to being a taxi driver again, and the
Canadian Music Centre's Centrediscs
label will receive the attention it deserves for
its work in promoting Canadianmusic. Sting
and Miles Copeland also deserve credit for
their new label, Pangaea. They plan to release somewhat esoteric music which should
be good as long as Sting keeps his hands off
the actual artistic directions of the label's
output. People should also keep an eye on
what is coming out of the U.B.C. School of
Music. Although nothing in the form of
vinyl or CD is being produced, there are
worthwhile live performances of new music
by faculty, local, and student composers.
These take place at various times between
September and April.
8 DISCORDER
Also, Vanna will marry Mr. T for his
big chain; Paul McCartney will star in
Caveman II; and Mormons will finally find
a tablet with scriptures buried deep in the
mountains of the new Zioti, inscribed upon
which will be the words, "Just Kidding!"
Ian: Like Paul said, it is difficult to predict
anything in the art of music these days.
Trends come and go, personalities fade as
quickly as they appear, almost as quickly as
they do in pop music. All I can say is that I
hope composers continue to take advantage
of the artistic freedom now available. There
is a lot of music out there that is good, and
just as much that is bad. We are in no position
to determine which is which. Only the future
can tell what music being produced today is
important.
As for the music scene in this town, the
V.S.O. will rise up and be successful once
again. My only hope is that they do not
totally sell out and become a Boston Pops
type ensemble. I'd like to see them come to
a middle ground in which they can satisfy
both popular and artistic tastes, thus selling
more tickets. They must endeavour to perform more Canadian, and specifically local
music. Other groups in the city deserve attention too, such as the university's fine
ensembles, and the Vancouver Opera,
which will hopefully get better and better.
Also, Steven Spielberg will direct a
film version of Richard Strauss' Salome.
Jack Nicholson will sing the lead. Sid Vicious will once again spoil any hopes of a
Sex Pistols reunion tour, and Jim Morrison
and John Lennon will be found alive in
South Africa collaborating on an operatic
version of the sixties myth. Finally, Steve
Reich and Philip Glass will receive raves
for a year of silence that they will hopefully
repeat and repeat and repeat and...
Norm Van Rassel
SWIRLING LIFELIKE COLOURS OF VINYL SPIN
TUESDAYS 9:00pm-midnight
So what's going to be the next BIG
THING? Three minute house tracks on C-
FUN? Ten year olds wearing Art Bergmann
T-shirts to school?
When the next BIG THING arrives I'll
be asleep. I'm talking boredom here. Music
in its many disguises stands on its individual
merits. There is a fine line separating brilliance from shit. The music business stands
on the musicians, occasionally lifting one
foot long enough for some misguided
individual(s)toutterawhimper(THENEXT
BIG THING) before once again being
squashed back into obscurity (or absurdity).
The dodgy artist avoids the underside of the
boot longer perhaps than the rest.
It's our responsibility to ourselves not
to burden our precious brain cells worrying
about the next BIG THING. When the next
BIG THING gets that BIG it's only made
itself that much smaller.
Bill Mullan
RETURN OF THE THUNDERGODS
(a prediction)
Actually, 'return' is probably the wrong
word, because it's more a spirit of adventure
that I'm concerned with here than a define-
able genre. Consider a few realities:
i) NASA researchers have recently released photographs of what appears to be a
HUGE (twenty miles square)humanlike face
on the surface of Mars.
ii) even as you read this, the Russian
space program has ships on their way to
Mars; as well, a cosmonaut recently spent a
full year in space with no serious physical or
psychological side-effects.
iii) despite the Space Shuttle fuck-ups
and disasters, the American space program is
getting back on track, and also setting its
sights on Mars.
iv) music technology is continuing to
move faster than even those theoretically on
top of it are able to figure.
v) it's almost hip again to admit you're
a space cadet.
vi) the new Star Trek is way better
than the old one.
What am I getting at? Very simple: a
resurgence of good solidmodernmusic which AIDS VANCOUVER
• Counselling & Referrals •
• Support Groups •
• Outreach Education •
Information Line
- 687-2437-
10:00 — 9:00 Weekdays
10:00 — 6:00 Saturdays
Funky Street Fashions
'JOKER
Good Prices
Cabbages <S>* Kinx
306 W. Cordova St.
Vancouver, B.C.
669-4238
CaqW An ,,TesJstiWe Uige
hD,
ance/
The FairamoBEt
The Late Nite
Soda Bar!"
The Paramount 652 Columbia St. New West - 526-8675
Dance Music Fridays & Saturdays
8 P.M. To 5 A.M. -17& Older Onlyl
Live Saturdays
Sept 3rd - ULTRAMARINE   Sept 10th -THIRTEEN
Sept 17th DEATH SENTENCE&The SCRAMBLERS
Sept24th D.O.A.
Happy Jack's Records & C.D.'s Inc.
C.D.'s $11.29
ea
1000's of Original 45's, Used C.D.'s & L.P.'s
1417 Commercial Dr. Vancouver B.C. will be inspired by the dawning of what
appears to be a second Space Age, and
humanity's resulting expanded consciousness (this will happen!). Reflect for a moment back on 1969 (assuming you can reflect
that far), July 20th to be specific, the day Neil
Armstrong first trod on the moon. I don't
think it's a coincidence that a new wrinkle on
popular rock'n'roll reared its head roundabout the same time. I'm speaking of cosmic
rock, of course. Huge concepts, daring experiments, possibilities as limitless as the
Universe itself!
It's no secret, of course, that volumes
have been written about how this era was
pretty much the nadir of rock'n'roll. Crucial
bands of the time like Yes, Genesis, Pink
Floyd (even aspects of Led Zeppelin) have
been well-crucified, and justifiably so. They
did break a lot of rules, took off on some
fairly absurd tangents. What do Yogic Scriptures have to do with Buddy Holly? What
do Giant Hogweeds have to do with Little
Richard?
But ultimately, so what! Rules are made
to be massacred, and the cheap technology is
well within our grip to take us places that
former cosmic rockers couldn't even have
dreamed possible. I'm not talking about songs
about outer space here, nor am I talking
about an 'Electric Lunch' style resurgence of
buried antiquities. It's got more to do with
the return of a certain attitude: the one that
says, sure rock'n'roll is all about fucking, but
it's also all about thunder, the awesome
power of nature, the infinite black hit ol
space. It's about boldly going where no man
has gone before, setting the controls for the
heart of the sun, firing all of the guns at once
and ... you know the rest
If you've caught Butthole Surfers live,
you've caught a hint of what I'm getting at:
a big, ugly, scary, wonderful noise that will
take you right off the planet if you let it. But
the Buttholes only use guitars and drums,
and they still don't know how to play them.
Consider them the tip of the iceberg.
And I didn't even mention drugs.
Peter Courtemanche
ABSOLUTE VALUE OF NOISE
FRIDAYS 3:00-5:00pm
I was sitting at the kitchen table shelling
green peas when I suddenly realised what the
next big thing is going to be.
C.K.V. inc.
It has something to do with disease and
pestilence.
We live in an age of wonders: space
shuttles, laser discs, super fluids, super conductors, A.I.D.S., toxic waste, killer bees...
It's easy to imagine how the good things
can be made better, but can the bad be made
worse?
Make no mistake-toxic waste and killer bees are a product of modem science and
technology. Perhaps that little virus that is
causing everyone so much trouble is also
man made:
Customized Killer Viruses will be the Next
Big Thing.
Gavin Walker
THE JAZZ SHOW
MONDAYS 9:00pm-12:30am
Courtney Pine is a jazz voice of the future.
He is 23 years old, an Englishman (born of
Jamaican parents) and a fine soprano and
tenor saxophonist. He has two albums under
his belt. The first, a fine effort called Journey To the Urge Within (Island 1120), was
a promising affair that tended to cover too
many bases to be a fully effective jazz record. His second, Destiny's Song (The Image of Pursuance) (Island 1179), is a pure
jazz album on which the Pine compositions
are explored on his horns and backed by
several outstanding rhythm sections. The
only non-Pine tune is Thelonious Monk's
'Round Midnight. Played solo on tenor, it
is a tribute to Pine's control of the horn.
Monk himself would smile.
Courtney was asked to join the Elvin
Jones, Art Blakey and George Russell
bands, but doesn't want to live in the States.
He feels he has much work to do to keep jazz
alive in England. He is intense, spiritually
driven and possesses not only a big soul but
a big sound. Check out his second album and
hear a jazz voice of tomorrow. rV lo ^     ^&rr Ai iwra^gCf    jfd
V*
rf*^
1-J0° DISCORDER Publisher's disclaimer by Harry "Hot Rod"
Hertscheg
Mr. Driver's Ed.,the author of the following article, has been on summer exchange
to our sister publication Really Fast Cars
and Really, Really Big Trucks. It's been a
difficult time for all of us. SHINDIG introduces good new bands to the people who
want to hear them. The "competition" aspect is just our way of encouraging the bands
to play and the public to pay.
Strap yourself down, it's BACK
and BIGGER than ever. In all
its nitro-burning, fuel-injected,
turbo-charged, 4 wheel drivin',
mud-spewing, full-load pulling
glory, CiTR is proud to present SHINDIG,
SHINDIG, SHINDIGGGGG. This fall for
13 spell-binding Mondays CiTR will be
turning the Railway Club at 579 Dunsmuir
(and only minutes away from BC PLACE
STADIUM) into a GIANT MUD PIT. Playing in a specially prepared, 12 foot wide, 7
foot deep and 100 yard long, mud-filled
trench will be 27 of Vancouver's most awe-
inspiring, flame- throwing, earth-rattling new
bands.
Each Monday night, from the opening
of the Fall Nationals on Sept. 12, through to
the close of regular season competition on
Nov. 14, the band turning in the best 1/4 mile
elapsed time on each night, will advance to
the fabulous semi-finals (Nov. 21, 28, Dec.
5). From these 9 semi-finalist bands, each
embodying the best that Vancouver's alternative/racing/musical community has to
offer, the three groups with the fastest times
in the drag boat races will advance to engage
each other in the ground pounding, wall
shaking, gut disturbing, ear bending Winter
National Final on Dec. 12. This exciting
event will be held at a location so astounding
we can't reveal it to the public. (Last season
the fans began lining up in mid Oct, and by
the time the final rolled around the last bend
a crowd of over 500,000 people had been
packed into the now defunct Savoy oval,
banked circuit.) For those unable to attend
the series, Discorder, "ThatMotor Magazine
from CiTR", will be giving race by race
coverage.
For the 3 finalists, prizes, the likes of
which are rarely matched in automotive/
musical events, will be offered. For the 3rd
place finisher, Bullfrog 16 Track Studio
and Tire Shop has donated 24 hours of
recording time and a full set of Goodyear
Racing Slicks. For 2nd place, Profile Aerodynamic Research and Studios have made
available 24 hours of recording time in their
24 track studio, and free use of their full size
wind tunnel (recently used by previous SHINDIG finalists, the Sons of Freedom Racing,
when they were designing their new Indy
ground effects racer). Meanwhile, Mushroom Motors and Music has generously
offered, as 1st prize, 24 hours of recording
time in their 24 track studio, and race prepa-
CD
3* 3
a>  o
9L g o
o  g> cq
3£|
03 2. %
7X  (Q Q.
CD
*<
-—
C^
c
2.
D
c
5
"D
3
CD
CD
edi-
^
0>
a
£f
D
0>
CD
OL
D"
w
0)
CD
cr
■MB •
■■*■ •
CO
D
CO
j
CD
■MM •
C/)
JO-
%*
o
5
cr
CD
■
CO
mi
SEPTEMBER 1988   13 AN ISLAND INVASION
Kicking Off Canadian Fall Tour
waruelrs
Monday September 19
Recorded Live For 99.3 CFOX
With Guests 64 Funny Cars
 THE	
TOWN PUMP
      66 Water St. Gastown
IND I SAW A DOOR IN HEAVEN AND HEARD
'   THE SAME VOICE SPEAKING THE VOICE
LIKE A TRUMPET SAYING "COME UP AND
I WILL SHOW YOU WHAT IT IS TO COME
TO      THE      FUTURE"
1
-REVELATIONS
{WS^a
8pkv\i?\ x BWL. /S ;:'S^- t?**&''** A
■**_   ^T^W**"^      »£
Sl (,i.iinill«Sln-.l \iiii.-oiiMT Brill
rm.
«/. IK3 Idlltl (>HK-2K2H
WORK LESS,
GET HIGHER MARKS
WE CAN HELP!
call RICK ORNAR
879-6121
TIME:TEXT STUDENT EDITION
A system that teaches you to get control of your time, cope
with the information overload and get more mileage out of
your studies.
Call Today
"Si*1**
'''■?crtKc,twgxs*:^
Q
M
w
^
14 DISCORDER ration services for the automotive competition of the winner's choice. The judging for
these events has been, and will be, carried out
by individuals whose experience and knowledge has made SHINDIG the watchword for
quality within automotive/musical circles.
While we can't reveal the identity of this
season's panel, past members have included
"Big Daddy" Don Garlits, "Connie" Cal-
etta, Al Unser Sr. and Jr., personnel from
the equipment supply companies, and an
array of highly qualified Drivers/DJs from
CiTR.
CAPAC:
Keeping it
close to
the street
Groups interested in entering the '88
SHINDIG should send a cassette tape with
at least 2-3 original songs, a record of their
finishes in approved automotive competition for the past two seasons, and a contact
phone number. The address at CiTR is UBC
Radio, 6138 SUB BLVD., VANCOUVER,
BC, V6T 2A5. Or you can drop off your
tapes and other information in person at
CiTR. CiTR can be found on the east side of
the 2nd floor of the SUB racing complex at
UBC, right next to the SUB Ballroom and
Dirt Track Racing Oval. Although SHIN
DIG has been noted in previous seasons for
its more straight ahead musical entries, it is
in fact open to any group which would like a
chance to play. For example, the second
place finish of last season by One Riddim
Racing, a reggae mountain bike team, showed
just what is possible when the FINALS of
SHINDIG roll around. For further information contact Linda "Cha Cha" Scholten in
person at CiTR or by phoning 228-3017
during office hours (Mon. - Fri., 10-4).
by Pat "Driver's Ed." Carroll
Most new songs come from "the street". That's the place
where young musicians get started. And the place where
songwriters can relate instantly to the lives, needs, and tastes
of their listeners.
CAPACs on the street too. Canada's senior performing
rights organization has been helping songwriters, composers,
lyricists and music publishers for well over 60 years.
Our main job is to administer performing rights for our 18,000
members. But there's more to it than that — informal advice
for newcomers; grants to help writers put demos together;
regular informational seminars; "The Canadian Composer"
to provide news, information and promotion for members;
an active vigorous voice for composers in legislative circles.
If you need to know more about CAPAC, all it takes is a phor.e
call or a visit to our downtown office at 1155 Robson Street.
CAPACs ready to help. Right on the street.
Composers Authors & Publishers Association of Canada
M55 Robson Street, Suite 703. Vancouver, B.C  V6E IB9 (604)689-8871
1240 Bay Street. Toronto, Ont.,  Canada  M5R 2C2  (416)924-4427
1245 ouest. rue Sherbrooke, bureau 1470. Montreal. Quebec H3G IG2  (514) 288-4755
SEPTEMBER 1988   15 MALCOLM'S    INTERVIEW
Looking For A- Handshake
w
*^ M/ nen our a,Dum 'Break-
W^ fast in Bedlam' (now
T T available domestically
through Vancouver's Festival Records)
was released in Britain, it was just ignored
by the Cartel," admits a furious David Allan, bassist of Malcolm's Interview.
"We're very bitter about this, actually,
because the Smiths had broken up and
they had 250,000 records to clear. That
took up all the promotional budget, so
nothing really happened. Now it's starting to take hold by word of mouth."
Allan and cohorts Josephine Swiss,
David Wall, and Jon Townend are
Malcolm's Interview - an aggressive, countrified version of compatriots New Model
Army; Mi's breadline sentiment further ties
the two acts together. Their much anticipated
and highly publicized arrival at the Vancouver Folk Festival this summer, plus a handful of in-town performances that followed,
and subsequent cross-Canada tour, leave the
quartet, on this continent anyway, with very
little to be bitter about. The local welcome
wagon hordes certainly could have no complaints about the Mi's performance.
ALLAN: The Folk Festival must shatter
people's great illusions about folk. I think
DOA are a fantastic folk band...I mean lyrically. They may not sing in the traditional
folk idiom...
TOWNEND: People seem to have a different
conception of folk over here. If you dare to
call yourself a folk band in England, you'd
probably get canned off.
WALL: It's the kiss of death.
TOWNEND: You've got to be a'roots band',
whereas over here folk music tends to be
alive and kicking. People respect it. The folk
listener in Britain seems to be very much this
old bearded-and-sweatered brigade.
ALLAN: ...the folk nazis.
TOWNEND: It's only recently because of
this sort of roots revival... a root revolution
has happened that young people are actually
starting to listen to it and finding it an acceptable musical form.
Deriving their name from an unskilled, uneducated character on a
British TV ad whom is taken for a
ride in a government initiated hiring program that ultimately benefits no one as takers
are paid slave wages and are not guaranteed
positions when the allotted period has expired, Malcolm's Interview has been in existence for four years, evolving through various line-up changes that once included Zero
Rek of the Batfish Boys. A12" single and an
acappella rendition of Sea Never Dry on the
'Cutting Edge (Cooking Vinyl) various artists compilation round out previous recordings.
TOWNEND: Sea Never Dry - our acappella
version has proved beyond our expectations.
It's proved to be a wild success. Everyone
loves it, for whatever reason. We never
imagined it would be such a hit at the time.
ALLAN: It's quite gratifying because a lot of
hardcore...well hardcore is the wrong
word...but bands like Chumbawamba...
they've put away their instruments and just
released a 10" acappella record. We get calls
from anarcho-punks all over the country.
They leave messages on the answering
machine saying "we like what you do, we're
throwing away our instruments."
WALL: It's amazing in the UK, a lot of the
hardcore-anarchic following has turned to
acappella. There was an underground release with a lot of acappella music on it that
circulated wildly and widely through the
hardcore section of the country. That's really
how they latched onto Malcolm's Interview
in the first place, and it's quite surprising.
Of the significance of the four covers included on the twelve song
Breakfast in Bedlam (Moving On
- MacColl; Which Side Are You On -
Gaughan; Pound a Week - Pickford; and
Bragg's It Says Here) Swiss explains, "I
think there's always people you want to refer
to because you respect them. It's a token of
admiration for certain writers."
Mumblings of agreement from the
remaining trio ensue. Townend continues
the explanation, "Ewan MacColl wrote
Moving On about the travelling
people...gypsies of Britain in the 60s for
instance. But this song is just as relevant now
as it was nearly twenty years ago. Similar
things are happening in Britain today. That's
half the thrill of taking an old folky radio
ballad and getting anarcho-punks throwing
themselves at each other and slam dancing to,
it. I think that Ewan MacColl should be
shaking us by the hand!"
Lloyd Uliana and Robert Lorenz
SOUP STOCK FROM THE BONES OF THE
ELEPHANT MAN
FRIDAYS midnight - 5:00am
DISCORDER SPECIALIZING IN CLUB & AEROBIC
DANCE MUSIC FOR WHOLESALE,
RETAIL & DISTRIBUTION
We are now producing high
quality 12" dance remixes and
edits   for   songs   and   artists.
Recent projects include
George Michael "Monkey"
Jody Watley "Most of All"
Rick Astley
"It Would Take A Strong Man"
For further information call
MARIO S. DAVID
(604) 736-8556      Fax 736-4084
l& sokgs
tttoyo«rse«to^*«
business a ^    mf0rmin9^   ^7
rWOCWl- The^ lace to begin Qto
of Canada - »*   waS establish^in
these as pei      Ushers. morethan
lyricists and P eserits m°'enubnshers.
Tact 2 - WgE onawriteis a^ae aS
r/2,000 Canadian youU rec a
SonatbernSs5h.ndi9Coinpe
^nnersofP-^ spring?*
"^SK**1* fall, 1986
THB rffiR^ ^p fan. is87
!..."^9htsOr9an     2Q0
1 a*'^    Vancouver, BA-
,_      V6E^2
688-7851
SEPTEMBER 1988   17 MMfw cr iff rciir mi
J^       's acoustic guitar tot-
I^L      ing Phranc takes a
j    f-^^L    personal approach to
J^L-^fl JL JBl resistance which
deals with: the individual, the individual
woman specifically, and the potential that
exists for self-actualization through the rejection of heterosexual conformity; depen-
dance on men economically, sexually, and
emotionally; patterns of socialization; and
gender identification.
Billing herself as "a basic ail-American
Jewish lesbian folksinger" Phranc, along with
Nova Scotia's Faith Nolan and NY's Alix
Dobkin, headed up the L-Word women's
issues-oriented workshop which proved to
be a highlight of the eleventh edition of the
Vancouver Folk Festival, and perhaps the
performance that sparked the most enthusiastic and heartfelt response of the weekend.
"I come out on stage as a lesbian wherever I play because I feel that people everywhere should know that they have that
option...that you can grow up and be whoever you want to be and look whatever you
want to look like and it's okay...that you can
be a healthy, successful individual and not fit
into a little canned idea of what a person's
supposed to be like. I feel that the more I
come out and say who I am, the more it wears
down that old stigma of it's not okay to say
it and let's hide and pretend. I just lay all the
cards on the table. Plus, then people can't use
any ammo against you if you're honest in
yourself. I think honesty is very important; it
doesn't matter who I'm playing for. I've
always gotten a really wonderful response,
and I play mainly for pop/rock audiences in
club situations. I don't do that many folk
festivals. I haven't so far. And I don't do that
many shows for women only, so that's not
my target. My target is the general public,
especially going out to young audiences and
being myself and singing songs which aren't
all about being a lesbian."
The most striking characteristic of a
Phranc show is her brash, wholehearted sense
of humour which reaffirms lesbian values,
true, but also invites in those on the fringes of
lesbian culture, and those attempting to
simply become aware of the issues.
"It's important when you want to talk
about serious things. I feel like you gotta
have a sense of humour. Usually, no matter
how heavy the song is, with the exception of
very, very few of my songs, there is a little bit
of humour in there because I feel that if you
open up that litde crack in somebody...that
little door in their minds, you can slip a whole
lot in, but you gotta let them open up first.
But if you go out and try to hit somebody
over the head with something, they're just
gonna clam up real tight. You're not gonna
get to wheedle anything in there. So I think a
sense of humour is one of the most important
tools in communicating, and especially in
songwriting."
Many Folk Fest patrons were
quite distressed in not being
able to track down her
Rhino-released/miserably
Capitol-promoted solo LP Folksinger on
the folk fest grounds nor in any of the record
shops around town. It's nothing new for
Phranc who was faced with the same situation when she opened for the Smiths on the
Queen is Dead tour. "We toured eastern
Canada and did the whole US, and I played
for thousands of people a night, and some
would go to the record stores and there would
be no record! So that tour was like out the
window for me. It was wonderful, but as far
as selling records it could have been really
tremendous and it wasn't."
Phranc goes back into the studio this
month with Victor DeLorenzo at the con
trols. In fact, it's being recorded at the ex-
Violent Femme drummer's Milwaukee studios. What can listeners look forward to on
the upcoming LP? Phranc explains:
"Bloodbath, which is about the situation in South Africa, will be on there. A
song I've written about my two grandmothers called Miriam and Esther. Both my grandmothers were a really big part of my life,
growing up...one has Alzheimer's and the
other is in a home now..so they're completely dysfunctional. It's a song about how
much they mean to me and how they Uve on
inside of me. Then there's a song called
Double Decker Beds which talks about giving up my bunk bed which I had until November. I had to find out the hard way that
adult relationships don't happen real well in
bunk beds. I always wanted to have this
incredible Leave It To Beaver bedroom,
and I did! I was the only one who seemed to
appreciate it though. So anyway, it's kind of
this sad love song. It was an expensive
lesson...lost a girlfriend, but got the queen-
size bed."
"I feel that the more I come out and say who I am, the more it wears down that old
of it's not okay to say it and let's hide and pretend. I just lay all the cards on the
stigma
table."
18
DISCORDER MTU
i    NOAN
"I think it's important that everyone has a cultural and historical identity and as a black
Canadian I feel it's important to fill in the history particularly of all those who've been
exploited."
As a black lesbian, Faith Nolan
knows all about the nature and
forms of oppression in modern
Canadian society. The Nova
Scotia bom Nolan brings to life the history of
blacks in Canada through song. She recognizes the importance of remembering the
past. "I think it's important that everyone has
a cultural and historical identity and as a
black Canadian I feel it's important to fill in
the history particularly of all those who've
been exploited. I mean certainly the Japanese, and the Chinese (the Chinese Head of
Tax of 1901), and the slaves up until 1834.
We all have to recapture our histories because our histories have been lied about so
much and distorted. There are only 10 books
in Canada on black Canadian history so we
have to build our own resources and folklore."
Canadians have ignored these sorts of
injustices for far too long. Faith Nolan's
stories about Halifax's black community of
Africville, which was torn down in the late
1960s, are sobering thoughts for a nation so
quick to point a self-righteous and accusing
finger at others.
"I know in my house people were
coming from Africville and living with us,
moving up to Ontario because they didn't
have their houses anymore. Like most people
who move, they relocate so they can get
better jobs. From Africville I focus (in my
songs) on people like Marianne Chand, and
Edith Clayton. I also wrote about a friend of
mine, Regina, who is in Kingston penitentiary for killing a man. I try to focus on black
women because they have certainly contributed, but that kind of history tends to get left
out. I guess it's like the history of women in
Canada but even more so when it's applied to
women of colour."
With a clarity bom of personal experience Nolan notes that ideologically, minority movements are at a more mature stage in
the U.S. than Canada, giving greater purpose
to her own involvement.
"Well, I think that definitely in the U.S.
there is a greater connection between racism
and lesbianism and other forms of oppression. For instance, at the march I played in
Washington there were people of all colours,
Jesse Jackson, lots of women, the unemployed, unions, etc. Whereas here, the lesbian and gay movements are just starting to
recognize the connection between theii
struggles and racism and capitalism. Once
we develop politically we will see that oui
struggles are based together and through oui
unity we will be able to build a better society."
Faith Nolan has two releases available
on which her message and mosaic style
(drawing from gospel, blues, jazz and reggae
influences) can be heard. Write to P.O. Box
690, Station "P", Toronto Ontario, M4S
2Y4, for more information.
Lloyd Uliana and Robert Lorenz
flETBopoLllflU tl°flE
ECLECTIC FURMStlinaS
fR°fl 40'S - 6Q'5
353W.PEI1DERST.
66T-2313
1146 Commercial ♦263-0913
SEPTEMBER 1988   19 DOIN THE
VANCOUVER
SHUFFLE: A
NEW THEATRE
COMPANY FIGHTS
BACK
In the United States, the Americans
are so blatant about racial prejudice you
can fight it because they call you 'nigger'
and they segregate you loud and clear. But
the racism in Canada is so subtle, and so
elusive you can't really pin it down. Like
finding jobs - they tell you "Oh, that job
was just filled 15 minutes ago, and if you
had come a little earlier you could have
had the job." They would have no more
hired you than shot themselves.
(Opening Doors, Dorothy Nealy)
If there's one thing that, doing research
for The Radio Show (on CiTR Fridays 5:30-6:OOpm) has taught me, it's
that there's a lot about this city, and
the people that Uve in it, that I never knew
about. I didn't know, for example, until I sat
glazed-eyed in the Imax Theatre at Canada
Place, listening to air show organizers compare in minute detail the various features of
fighter planes, just how many Vancouverites
flocked out to Abbotsford every year to attend the world's third largest air show. (I still
don't know why they flock out to Abbotsford
every year to attend the world's third largest
air show, but I figure you can't be greedy regarding the knowledge thing.)
If I felt a little insecure about my plane
expertise, I'm always more than confident
when it comes to covering theatre stories.
(Hey, I've taken Theatre 200.) That's why
the interviews I did with the artistic director
of Vancouver's newest theatre company,
and the cast and director of its first production, were such humbling experiences. I
realized that I was as ignorant about one
aspect of Vancouver theatre as I was about
the F-14. Unfortunately, I think my ignorance is shared by a lot of other people in the
20        DISCORDER
city, even those who are involved in the arts.
I'm talking about the very real concern of
ethnic actors in the city towards the lack of
mainstream roles for visible minorities.
Lee Jeffery is a recent graduate from
Langara's Studio 58, and the co-founder
(with producer Tish Heaven) of Spectrum,
a new theatre company whose first production, Lorraine Hansberry's A Raisin in the
Sun, opened a few weeks ago at the Firehall
Theatre. True to its name, Spectrum has a
mandate to inject a litde colour into
Vancouver's all too monochrome theatre
community. In fact, a lot of different colours.
Although Jeffery originally intended to create the Vancouver Black Theatre Company, he has since modified both the name,
and the underlying philosophy of the organization.
"We want to do everything," he explains, "things that aren't being done in
Vancouver right now." That means incorporating more minorities, who, like Jeffery and
other local black actors, are faced daily with
the lack of roles available to non-whites.
While Jeffery asserts that the company
will be presenting shows which are not inherently ethnic in nature, (in order to allow
Vancouver audiences to see visible minorities in non-stereotyped roles), he admits that
A Raisin in the Sun is, in many ways, a black
play. Set in a Chicago ghetto in the fifties, the
play addresses the issues of assimilation, the
segregation of neighbourhoods and the
struggle for equal rights, which were only
just rising to the surface of white American
consciousness in 1959 when the play was
written.
While a few of the issues may seem
dated, the play loses none of its relevance in
being produced today; it's a play, according
to director Christine Menzies, "about the
perseverance of love in a family,...and also
about human dignity." This production has
been dedicated by Menzies to black South
Africans, and to oppressed people the world
over. For Jeffery, and for the rest of the cast,
A Raisin in the Sun seemed a fitting way to
launch Spectrum.
For the supporters of the company,
the question is not only why more
plays which feature black, Asian,
or Native Indian characters are
not being produced, but also why there seems
to be such a reluctance locally to cross-cast
(that is, cast a minority in a role that is traditionally played by a Caucasian). Other theatre centres in the country, according to
actors who have worked there, show a far
greater willingness to incorporate minorities
into both film and stage productions. Mainstream theatre in Vancouver, however, remains principally white. Consequently, for
black actors only two options have existed.
The first is the musical. Shows like
Ain't Misbehavin' and the Black and Gold
Revue feature all black casts, and seem to be
consistent box office draws. If you're not,
however, a singer or a dancer, there are very
few roles available. Unless, of course, you 're
willing to pursue the second option: a stereotyped role. Black actor Charles Payne explains:
* I hope [Spectrum] is a successful thing,
I hope they continue to do...a lot of serious
drama, so black actors are not seen in the
stereotype, playing a rapist, or all those other
negative stereo types...On film, I always end
up playing a drug dealer, or a convict, or a
hoodlum of some type."
Director Christine Menzies believes that
the lack of positive ethnic representation
extends far beyond the theatre community.
The visible minority, she insists, is often
turned down for work in commercials because a casting director will insist that Canadians are "not ready for that." For her,
Spectrum's production of A Raisin in the
Sun is "a protest against the kind of restriction that occurs in the theatre community in
Vancouver."
Doubtless, Spectrum's first production
has to be seen as a statement of sorts, but Lee
Jeffery is anxious to add that the company
shouldn't be seen as simply a vehicle for
political or social criticism. "I don't ever
want to knock the audience across the head
with my point of view. I want good literature
and good entertainment, and that's what will
bring the audience in. It's not amatter of 'Are
they ready for it?' Good entertainment will
blossom in itself."
Spectrum will next present Studio 58's
production of Sganarelle at the Fringe Festival later this month. Judging from A Raisin
in the Sun, it will no doubt be good entertainment, and much, much more enjoyable than
a lecture on fighter planes.
Andrea Lupini HERE   IT
^^
'9
ffi9530G3
900Q
STUDIOS
P
R
I
Z
E
S
w
M
v
IS...   AGAIN.
AND ITfS CALLED.•.
•  •
/
1st!  24 HRS RECORDING TIME IN A 24 TRACK STUDIO
@ Mushroom Recording Studios
24 HRS RECORDING TIME IN A 16 TRACK STUDIO
@ Fluid Sound Studios
2nd!  24 HRS RECORDING TIME IN A 24 TRACK STUDIO
@ Profile Studios
3rd!  24 HRS RECORDING TIME IN A 16 TRACK STUDIO
@ Bullfrog Recording Studios
stArts  sEptEmbEr  12!
EvErY roOndAy At
CiTR
10L.9 fM 1055 HOMER • 681-8202 1000' s of
Tapes
Tapes To oo
Banyen Sound
Atmosperics
Environmental Sounds
Healing Music
Temple Gongs
Chimes
Seven Listening Booths
Listen Before You Buy
Hours     Mon. - Fri D-9
Sat D-6
Sun 12^6
2669 West Broadway.
Vancouver, B.C. V6K2G3
(604)737-8858
»1N^HNj«T0NA1.J
S? CRITICS AWARI>m
7\,    CANMES    J*
A Film By:
Mkhel Kftteifi
in Hebrew &
Arabic with
English Subtitles
Wedding
GALILEE
il The setting is a violence-prone village in a not-so-holy land; the director an expatriate Palestinian with a
| proscribed point of view. And yet, Michel Khleifi's remarkable Wedding in Galilee is neither a political tract
I nor an emotional polemic. Instead, it is a wonderfully resonant work of fiction, an insightful and multi-tiered
| account of a proud people suffering under the yoke of occupation. For, as an artist, Khleifi can do precisely
I what the statesmen cannot: free the Mid-East conflict from its provincial bindings, moving beyond the
I suffocating politics to the universal psychology.  By: Rick Groen - Globe and Mail
Fri,, Sept. 16 - Thurs., Sept. 22
7:15 & 9:30
For One Week Only
1
i VANCOUVER EAST CINEMA §
7th AVE. & COMMERCIAL DRIVE 253 5455
FALL SALE ON NOW! FALL SALE ON NOW
UNIQUE ALTERNATIVES
FOR MALES AND FEMALES
SINGLE AGAIN CLOTHING. COSTUMES.
JEWELRY AND ACCESSORIES
LOOKING FOR A NEW. MEANINGFUL
RELATIONSHIP.
ANTIQUE TO CONTEMPORARY
154 WEST HASTINGS NEAR CAMBIE
(604) 683 0080
STUDENT DISCOUNT   AVAILABLE
SEPTEMBER 1988   23 CHEAP
A4CVIES
Well, it's that time
of year again. Not
only are we confronted with post-
registration bliss,
pre-class anxiety,
drunken oblivion, rekindling old and not so
old acquaintances, but those monetary blues
have dawned. No more free loving summer
fun as we see those hard earned dollars
soaked up by that unquenchable educational
sponge. Where's the government when you
need it? Whoa, those dollar blues. Symbolically, the ole buck itself has bit the dust,
never to be printed again. The dollar has been
reduced to mere coinage, the LOON. These
are chaotic times indeed. Food costs are rising, rental payments are soaring, even the
price of alcohol rose over the summer at the
PIT PUB. It's even too expensive to drown
one's sorrows these days! Are you feeling
frenzied? And to think school hasn't even
started yet Well, there's always the Crisis
Centre for cheap entertainment
Hmm, cheap entertainment, that's almost an oxymoron these days. The question
that needs to be asked: "Is there a cheap
escape from all this madness, something to
do that won'tcostanarm, aleg, andyour sanity?" Well, this article is an (ever so feeble)
attempt at introducing to the uninformed
how this author realizes good times cheaply.
Times that can be enjoyed individually, romantically, or even in groups. It can have
either a foreign or domestic flavour and it's
not Haagan-Dazs ... (suspense)... of course
it's the movies, you know - cinematography.
Movies are a fantastic way of discovering
new insights through grand scheme audiovisual presentations and evaluations of our
intricate and complex world. All that is required of you is to sit down, relax, watch and
listen. Now you may be thinking I'm insane,
imagine 6 1/2 loons to catch a flick...hold
that thought! There are excellent alternatives
to the Cineplex Odeon and Famous Players
features whereby you can really scrape in the
savings. Movie houses that come to mind in
a flash are: the Hollywood, the Vancouver
East, the Ridge, Pacific Cinematheque,
the Studio Cinema. And of course, located
in the depths of the Student Union Building
at UBC are FilmSoc's Cinema 16, Classics
Night and Popular Cinema all showing
their films within that congenial yet tomblike structure known as the UBC Theatre.
These theatres are not media hyped so
one is required to do some searching to reap
the savings. It's all rather simple though - the
Georgia Straight prints a comprehensive list
of the shows and times, and all these theatres
do put out their own movie schedules which
incidentally tend to be quite informative.
Chances are that those places that carry
Discorder Magazine will also have copies of
the above theatres' schedules. Failing that,
one can usually find some schedules lying
around the FilmSoc Club's office located in
room 247 of the SUB building.
The Hollywood Theatre is perhaps the
cheapest and most fun. Located near UBC in
the heart of Kitsilano (at the comer of W.
Broadway and Balaclava, across from
Orestes), new movies (often mainstream)
HUMOUR
2050 W. 4" AVE VANCOUVER B.C. 738-6484
R      Y
POLITICS
24        DISCORDER ....First there was laughter
he talked with his hands
he showed me lands far
and animals unknown
he created my castles with
purple moons and dragons
he made love with warm
tones and cool colours
he said...Chase that dream...
VAN ALEN MODELING CLAY AT
frogspirit
DRflAQONAITOON ©yWOWIGSS
• EDUCATIONAL IDEAS ^W,     • WIERD SUPPLIES
• NEAT KITS ^rV^ * STRANGE TOOLS
• RAW MATERIALS        ^SL     • KEEN STUFF
988
LONSDALE QUAY MARKET
123 - CARRIE CATES COURT
NORTH VANCOUVER, B.C. V7M 3K7
4222
circulate through the theatre each week. The
only problem with the Hollywood is that
unless you drop by the theatre you often can't
find their movies listed anywhere. Your best
bet is to give them a call every Monday
(believe me, it's a religious experience) at
738-3211. Don't worry, the voice and quality of the answering machine is in no way
indicative of the general state of the theatre
(you'll know what I mean when you call).
This place is by far the cheapest. For $2 on
Mondays one is admitted to both bills, $2.50
for Tuesdays, and $3.50 for the rest of the
week. My only advice is, if it's a hot day be
sure to arrive in your beach apparel since the
lackof air conditioning means itcangetquite
stuffy in there - seriously.
If you are an ardent movie-goer you
cannot pass up a Van East membership.
Situated at Commercial Dr. and 7th Ave
(right by the Broadway Skytrain Station),
this is a modem theatre with fantastic movie
selections. A $5 yearly membership means
you can catch two flicks in one night for only
$3 ($5 for non members). They have a good
sound system and great snack bar. Yes,
popcorn with real butter, cheap drinks and
homemade cookies and cakes. Not bad, if
you don't mind the travel out there (unless
you happen to live nearby). They circulate
new movies every Monday, Wednesday, and
Friday, so their informative newsprint guide
to their listings is essential in order to capture
their fantastic selection. This theatre does
attract a lot of premier foreign and alterna
tive films, and the past has housed Russian,
Chinese, Greek, etc. film festivals. Then-
past Russian festival was superb with films
like Tarkovsky's Nostalgia and The Sacrifice, and Petrshkov's Come and See.
The Ridge (found at the corner of 16th
and Arbutus) is a classic grand scale theatre
that attracts many excellent foreign and non-
mainstream film for what are supposed to be
week long viewing that sometimes, depending on a feature's success, extends a week or
two. They are famous for their animation and
advertising festivals which are a must see.
Definitely try and pick up one of their movie
program guides for their informative and
detailed reviews of the films shown. This is
a theatre you'll want to go to on Tuesdays
when seats are $3, otherwise regular box
admission is $5. In September Vincent will
be showing, a definite film experience profoundly illuminating and capturing the essence and spirit of the intriguing life and
accomplishments of the famous Dutch painter
Vincent Van Gogh.
Just in passing, for those avid movie
buffs, the Vancouver International Film
Festival will again shine on Vancouver from
Sept. 30th through Oct. 15th. The Hollywood, Ridge, and Van East will all be carrying films. With the return of the Varsity and
the Dunbar this year's Film Festival may
prove a little more accessible to the UBC
crowd - hopefully. Look for urxx>rriing information in the Straight, West Ender and the
Sun about movies, prices and times. Don't
miss it, an awesome presentation of recent
domestic and foreign films, many of them
being seen in Canada for the first time.
Closer to home for those of us stuck on
campus are the films (Cinema 16, Classics
Night, and Popular Cinema) shown at the
UBC Theatre. There's definitely something
about the atmosphere in the UBC Theatre
with the hissing speakers, occasional lapses
in vertical and horizontal hold, smuggled in
alcohol, machine bought popcorn and a lively
crowd; with such a combination of elements
you just cannot go wrong. And the price? A
mere $2.50.
Cinema 16 offers fantastic films presented in a theme format. For instance, last
year one theme was a celebration of
Bergman's films. Two great films I remember catching last year were Herzog's Nosfer-
atu (a Dracula film vividly rendered) and an
artistically moving documentary on Edvard
Munch's life. Cinema 16 films show Wednesday nights and have an initial $2.50 membership fee. Monday nightis Classics Night.
Expect films of Bogart, Monroe and, of
course, classics by the master of suspense,
Alfred Hitchcock. Thursday through Sunday has the theatre booked with recent mainstream releases. Be sure to check the UB YS-
SEY for listings or the posters outside the
SUB theatre in the main concourse of the
SUB building. Good luck.
This has been an unpaid nonpolitical
announcement by:
Michael Grigg
SEPTEMBER 1988   25 CINEMA- 16
Th* Book $ Comic EflroNu*
Vancouver s Largest Selection Of Almost New
And Used Taper Backs
0 general magazine hack issues including music
0 Large range of hardcovers on second floor
Thousands of New and collectors comics
W£ 3M. SELL OKTKADE.
124? (granville St. 6Q2-3CW open 7 dai/s a week;
26        DISCORDER
September 14
•Polanski's The Tenant
September 21 :	
Boarding School
Double Bill»Jean Vigo's
Zero de Conduite, and*
•Lindsay Anderson's If *..
- September 28	
•Robert Bresson's
Les Anges du Peche
Wednesday Nights
at 7:00pm and 9:30pm
$2.50 single admission,
$3.50 for double bills
($2.00 annual membership required)
Student Union Building
Theatre, UBC
24 Hour Film Info 228-3697
.JOURNAL
OF THE
PLAGUE YEAR
DebUT cassette
Available at
Cellophane Sq.
Bellingham (JS6
if*
Sept 10
The Paramoirot TflFS CAFE
3^2^   a<?icl ctfft&r Ma Mcn/tM./
rec cappuccino
Tafs now has an
upstairs gallery
available free for your
private parties.
All Natural Shakes
made with fresh fruit.
■ JL
829 Granville Street,
Telephone: (604) 684-8900
(ACROSS FROM CAPITOL 6 CINEMAS) nmm
WW £Mt»vme sir. vawcoover.
^IMMIIOOLOf
f  IMKDREvSIMi «.fNTHEIKS
fKp 2735 E.Hastings St.,
,JH, 101 W.Cordova St.,
^0 Vancouver, B.C.
DAY & EVENING
CLASSES in:
• Comprehensive Hairdressing
• Advanced Hairdressing
• Hair Extensions
• Electrolysis
• Professional Esthetics
STARTING SEPTEMBER
• Advanced Make-up:
Theatrical - Photogra"h
Fantasy - Film - Airbi**,,
255-4734
ftt
J&    ELECTRONICS
REPAIR & SALES
Reggae Videos For Rent
Reggae Magazines For Sale • Reggae CD's and Cassettes
"ASK ABOUT OUR LARGE SELECTION OF REGGAE
& WEST INDIES RECORDS"
875-9885
1391 Kingsway, Vancouver, B.C. V5V 3E3
28        DISCORDER It's been a year since the British Columbia government instituted its new
Student Loans Policy, and it's amazing to see how many students are still
unclear on the particulars. So I will try to
explain the ins and the outs, what to know
and how to get the most out of it.
Before going on, I'd like to stress that
it's up to you, the student, to read all related
government pamphlets and information kits
pertaining to the loans program for the official rules on how to play the game. This is a
definite must!
The main item of the new program is the
limit to total student loan debt loads of
$12,000. This is very likely due to a large
number of bankruptcies declared by students.
So, you're looking at four years in
school for a diploma or degree and
you can't make enough $'s in the
summer to pay your educational costs. But
before you fill out a student loan form, just
think about the entire project If you borrow
$3,000 for a year for example (roughly half
the maximum loan per year) and multiply
that by the magic number of four years, you
get $12,000, which just happens to be the
maximum debt load. So why borrow just
$3,000 when you can borrow the maximum
of $6,200 and your debt will still be $12,000?
My attitude on the subject is: THE MORE I
BORROW THE MORE I GET FREE.
The government calls this "Loan Remission". Loan remission is basically the
government paying for whatever debt you've
accumulated above $12,000. But you must
make dead sure you qualify for loan remission. First and foremost, you must finish
your degree.
Another very important aspect of loan
remission eligibility is the "Personal Responsibility Requirement". Obviously
coined by Vander Zalm himself, this basically says that every summer, including the
summer preceding your first loan, you must
either work, volunteer or study for three out
of the usual four months of summer holidays. Not much of a holiday is it? Especially
here in job-abundant B.C. You can have one
month at Daddy's, welfare or whatever, but
then you've got to get off your butt and work.
You can have a combination of the
above so you can work part of it,
volunteer (at CiTR?), and even take
a summer course for the rest You forfeit one
year's loanremissionifyoudon'tfulfill your
personal responsibility the preceding summer. So if you blow one year and bum around
for the summer your debt will be $12,000
plus whatever you borrowed for the following year. Sure it's tricky. It's alegal scam and
believe me it's a two-way street. They can
stiff you if you're not careful. But there's
alwayspersonal bankruptcy if you completely
mess up.
Now, about those big bucks you made
in the summer, assuming you found a job,
that is. It's a good thing you spent it all on
high living because with so little savings you
qualify for a large loan. Subtract whatever
you have left from the maximum of $6,200
and that's what you get. Unless (there's
always an "unless") your budget requirements for the coming year are high enough to
make your loan request at or above the
maximum. It's a good thing you've acquired
expensive tastes. It's always better to be
above. Always.
The budget is where everything is decided. Do a rough one first, even
two, and put in everything and anything you can think of. Save a copy for reference. Find out if you're eligible for special
expenses. Music students, for example, can
budget up to $1,500 for an instrument Just
ask your friendly neighbourhood loans officer.
Also on the topic of the budget, this is
where your "work-study" eligibility is determined. Work-study is a job of 5 to 10
hours per week at your place of education. It
usually pays $8 per hour and is almost always cushy. You can only work-study if you
request more than the maximum loan available. Work-study will make up the difference between your request and the maximum, up to $2,000, so make sure you request
at least $6,200 plus $2,000 if you want the
maximum of both.
I think that's about it. There's a lot to
take into account, but remember, more is
merrier. If you borrow for four years at
$6,200 you'll end up with $12,800 free and
of course, a $12,000 debt 'Sno problem.
Because if you plan to make it to graduate
school you only have to pay back $2,000 per
year, leaving you with $4,200 smackeroonies
per year FREE! This will also increase your
total debt-load to $16,000 but with your
"higher degree" and the accompanying
"higher income bracket" job you'll find
you're set and your debt's *sno problem.
John Frymire
i>4
.ght  inM
THURSDAY
night
THE PiT
63°
your  »j$&*
Missing
Something?
Back   Issues
Only   $1
Each.
Send cheque or
money order to
Discorder, S.U.B.,
U.B.C, Vancouver, BC
V6T 2A5.
Please list
alternate choices.
SEPTEMBER 1988   29 A MAINTENANCE
DKINKEKS (jWDE 70
THE. 3AV AFEA
U| need a drink, my head
I hurts, I need a drink,"
I wrote California poet
Xc. Bukowski. These
words of wisdom convinced me of
the need for a field-study trip to
the land of Bud and Twinkies.
Armed with a family-sized bottle
of Tylenol I flew down to San Francisco to meet local experts Dr.
Pedro (USF), Dr. Ralph (Berkeley),
Dr. Crisp (U of London), and famous entymologist Dr. Broadway
who had come down for the killer
bees symposium at Stanford.
Two weeks of hard work proved
that the Bay Area is a perfect
location for maintenance drinking. Easily as good as London,
Paris, North Burnaby, or Monte
Carlo.
While imbibing is usually the
main reason for going to clubs and
bars one must consider other factors such as ambience, price of
beer, music, cover charges, danger to one's life, etc... They all affect successful maintenance drinking which is defined as the ability
to drink for extended periods of
time and still keep reasonable
control over major motor-functions (walking a few blocks, standing, making witty remarks to
complete strangers, counting
change...)
San Francisco watering outlets have something to offer to all
types of drinkers. Read on and see
for yourself.
3300 Club - A corner bar on Mission St.
which could have been a Barfly set. Great
juke-box with a lot of moody 40s tunes. Best
in the evening when the regulars are nodding
out and the light is fading. Strictly domestic
Tip Top Inn - Also on Mission, a few doors
down from the 3300. Pool tables and the nice
adrenaline rush you get from knowing that
the wrong word or look will get you knifed.
Mix of out-of-towners (lost) and down-and-
outers. Good beer prices.
El FarolitO - Stumbling distance from previous. Best enjoyed near closing time when
you're likely to be the only patron. No English spoken so brush up on your Spanish.
Skyline - Mission Street in the heart of the
Hispanic neighbourhood has as many bars as
muggers plus a lot of burrito joints for
munchies between pints. Here we find the
Skyline. Unhospitable barmaids refuse to let
winos pass out on floor!
Berkeley Square - A top live venue in
Berkeley. Saw Thin White Rope do their
brand of sci/fi, horror rock. Lead singer Guy
Kyser finally shaved his silly beard, and the
band played all cuts on the "In the Spanish
Cave" lp. Admission is to 18 and over and
technically only those over 21 can order
drinks, but what are friends for? The Pixies,
Untouchables, Jonathan Richman, and
Soul Asylum all played there recently.
Triple Rock Brewery - Also in Berkeley.
Wood-planked floors and good home-brewed
beers. Red Rock Ale is worth the trip but the
place is overrun by well-behaved, well-
dressed responsible types.
The Twin Peaks - Castro and Market near
the infamous Castro Theatre. More moustaches than you have seen in years. Jolly atmosphere and the happy hour lasts all day.
Firehouse 7 - The building really is an old
firehouse built in 1908. Small and high ceil-
inged with one small door guarded by a
Mr.T. look-alike. Music 7 nights a week
with DJ playing mostly hip-hop, rap, reggae
and modern cutting-edge music (whatever
that is). The pumping bass and the loitering
gang-members are almost guaranteed to keep
you awake even after a dozen Anchor
Streams. Good selection of British imports
on tap.
Ireland 32 - Pictures of Bobby Sands, Sinn
Fein posters IRA flags, and thick brogues
(and fake brogues), but the Guiness is excellent making it a must for the Guinless. Next
door to Pat O'Shea's where a sign above the
door reads: We cheat drunks and tourists.
Cork n'Bottle - Noe St. and24th. Features
drunks singing old Irish songs off-key while
trying not to fall off their stools. Pool table
with the odd hustler. Good mix of serious
and maintenance drinkers.
I-Beam - On Haight Street in Hippieland.
The club has been there forever and is known
world-wide. Do your drinking somewhere
else and then go see some of the best bands
around on Monday nights. Saw the Sug-
arcubes, who have finally been allowed into
the States (and maybe Canada if we're lucky).
Bjork the female vocalist has a wonderful
Manson groupie presence and a voice that
drills into your spine. Fellow band member
Einar Orn proved to be much less annoying
Uve than on vinyl. He controlled the band on
stage and bantered with the crowd. Watch
for the upcoming releases of Sugarcubes
with JMC and Sugarcubes with S.O'Connor
recordings.
Nightbreak - A block away from the I-
Beam. Nairobi lounge night on Tuesdays
with DJ Ras-I-Zulu. Live acts on weekends.
Good during the afternoon happy hour.
Bonus: a tiny record store called Speedway
is tucked away in a corner of the dance floor.
Rockin Robin's - No ice cream.
Everybody's favorite tunes from the 50s and
60s. Didn't bother going in (probably
wouldn't have passed the dress code anyway).
El Cumbre - It really is a cafeteria but has
a great selection of Mexican Beers ($1.50)
and superb food. They even sell T-shirts.
Rockin' Patrick
DISCORDER ifg1
O WO)
*t/>CO
</) Sco
ZULU SURF
MAUI & SONS
QUICK SILVER
SURF & SKATE
OZZY
MR. ZOGS
Boards On Sale Starting at $35.00
Ground Zero 11 Lonsdale Ave. North Van. 988-8367
Bowen Island, Whalley, or GageTowers?
Blaine, Powell River, or War Memorial Gym?
How far is far? Are YOU the person who lives
the FARTHEST from CiTR's studios who
can pick up CiTR fm 102 the best?
How near is near? Are YOU the pi
lives the CLOSEST to CiTR's stu
cannot pick up CiTR at all?
If you arc either one of these, then
- a show broadest from your very own home!
- a one-year membership to CiTR!
- a one-year subscription to Discorder!
- a full collection of CiTR buttons in all 20
flavours!
- dinner for two at Tafs Cafe!
Remember: Don't cheat and use cable.
Phone the Long/Short Contest Hotline:
(604) 228-3017.
Or write: Long/Short Contest
c/o CiTR fm 102
6138 SUB Boulevard
Vancouver, B.C. V6T2A5
Deadline: 30 September 1988.
SEPTEMBER 1988   31 Until a Thursday in the middle
of last month "Corsage" had
always, for me, brought with
it sweaty-palmed anxiety attacks and memories of an
incident in my late teens involving a bundle
of flowers, a safety pin, a young lady, her
plunging neckline, myself and an unscheduled visit to the emergency room at Lions
Gate Hospital. However, since that Thursday "Corsage" still brings anxieties with it,
but they are not mine, they're Phil Smith's.
Corsage, an on again/off again collaboration between front man Phil Smith and
guitarist Bill Napier-Hemy, is on again.
Last year, after spending the previous two
years doing their own things, (Smith in
London where he married, and Napier-Hemy
in New York working as a studio engineer),
both returned to Vancouver. Once here and
settled in, they decided to finish a collection
of songs they had left incompleted before
their departures. Those songs, now finished,
have been released as a 10-track cassette.
"I spent a lot of time working on the sequence of the songs," recalled Smith. "I
wanted it to have a cohesiveness to it."
This process included dumping some
of the songs which didn't fit into his theme
and remixing other songs so they would
work better in the sequence he had chosen for
the cassette. The cassette's theme, developed upon his return to Vancouver from
London, is one of superficial success coupled
with personal anxiety and a certain nostalgia
for the past. However, after all this work
Smith jokes that it amounted to "putting the
fast songs on the first side, and the slow ones
on the second."
I
t was these songs which formed the
core of the performance on Thursday
August 11. The show was rounded out
by numbers from Corsage's previous
"I don't like playing live too often. I have to be excited about it for anyone else to be."
incarnation and a new song, chosen from a
group of them, co-written by Smith and
Napier-Hemy while they were away. "I would
get these cassettes in the mail, with all this incredible music on them." Eventually Smith
got access to a "toll free trans-Atlantic phone
line" and he and Napier-Hemy would work
on the songs during "these two hour phone
calls from London to New York."
The most recent version of Corsage had
Ron Allen, from the Scramblers, on bass,
John Cody dnimming, Steve Quinn, from
the Toronto-bound Go Four 3 on guitar and,
of course, Smith and Napier-Hemy. The show
was a fairly straight-forward affair with the
well-rehearsed band backing Smith as he
yelled himself hoarse while lurching around
the stage in his best impassioned singer
manner. It was also a marked difference from
earlier versions of the band where upwards
of 10 musicians plus dancers, actors, and
whomever else Smith felt necessary, were
packed on stage.
"I felt the gigs at the SUB Ballroom
were our best shows. They walked the line
between chaos and control. However, by the
time that version of Corsage finished everything had fallen into chaos. We were doing
new songs, old songs, songs from other bands
I'd been in, folk songs I'd written...people in
the band weren't speaking to each other!"
Little wonder the two principals in the project felt compelled to flee town afterwards.
It shouldn't surprise anyone, then, to
learn that the band which just played, won't
play again. "I don't like playing Uve too
often," explained Smith. "I have to be excited about it for anyone else to be." As well
he worries that if he was singing old songs
he'd have trouble writing new ones. Thus the
next step for Smith and Napier-Hemy is a
return to the studio to record the songs written while they were in New York and London.
It's a process which Smith approaches
in a surprisingly off-hand manner, "I
hate demo tapes." So when he records
his vocals Smith arrives at the session
with a song title and perhaps a chorus and
some ideas for the verses. "The sound of a
song can change between rehearsal and recording, and then the music would suggest
different things to me... even something as
simple as Bill switching from a 'Gibson' to
a 'Strat' can change it for me." After writing
his songs this way Smith's only conclusion is
that "faster songs get written faster, slower
ones, slower."
At the end of this recording process,
likely sometime in the fall Smith and Napier-
Hemy will look around, pull together another band and again venture into public. For
those of you who've missed their previous
incarnations don't miss their next one. Like
your high school grad dance, it's only going
to happen once, and everything that follows
will be different.
Pat Carroll
32        DISCORDER ILocal Bands!
flNDEPENDANT LABELS!
!Your Ad Here!
!!Cheap!!
Call 683-7238 For More Info
SAT
3-Bpro
LAZY LESTER
MHEWUMOBHNi
SUN
7-12 pm
JIM BYRNES
1—3
JASON HOOVER
•      6-10      •
NEIL JAMES
14 — 15
POWDER
BLUES
15—17
STEVIE AND THE BLUEFLAMES
20 — 24
BELAIRS
27-29
DOC FINGERS
30 — 1
f  JACK LAVIN'S I
JAM SESSIONS!
! SATURDAY-3-8 pm
SUNDAY 7-12pm
RECORDS LTD
1111 Commercial Drive
4376 W. 10th Ave.
L.P.'s Tapes CD's
SEPTEMBER 1988   33 \t<t£   T/ttt4ftt&
COLLECTOR'S R.P.M.
?&
o^
&
&
dF
&
Try us fist for imports
FREE Admission to
Beattles & Kiss Museum
15% off for Student Cards
BUY ONE-GET ONE FREE
(selected imports)
685-8841
456 Seymour St.,Vancouver
We pay top prices for rare clean records
%
■%
us
1+1
' PLUS     M       W~
Tou   PLUS   iTrIend  pay 1
VANCOUVER
THEATRESPORTS
LEAGUE
ADMISSION
With this Coupon
Expires September 29/88
Valid Wed A Thurs Only
THE BACK ALLEY THEATRE
751 Thurtow Street R—. 688-7013
Sorrt, Pad.
Our minds are
mape up.   It's
the CiTR
SOUND
MACHINE for
OUR  HOOTENANY,
OR IT'S nothing!
It's mobile, it's
hip, anp its wat
more fun than
ant John Wayne
film festival.
228-3017 CITR  present
tion
SPECIAL  GUESTS
FROM  BOSTON
I0WN PUMP M61TF.fl STREET
TICKETS      AT      DOOR WHAT WOULD
Im&priS}
r^h^rT^adley
JL .'♦.* "jp ^;\r!\^v
A lfeyib|v^
i?j ^>** t^i*
I have
bucks...1J
Love,
peace.
si? l$*&^j
Vanillar.. sopn^Tot^-^
sound., ^utterscroi&feb 'V^jj
icl> *1
ltfc£v pi__
ling^getyo^inrhe
.ao^ ipv9uV#;ii,a| in
Fih^i meofl already!. .a
fe&ripte ; of $o?tties| of
champagncV ^lfck
; satin^hefetfr,. aniXSin-
iW^ERcVou'r^
I'.ing GQrr^ietelyj^rectly.
J* You're not goirjjfto do this
^xalofie?- . :
Afy girlfriend back in my
arms!
ESTHER: Doing what?
Hey! This is for radio. I can't
say it!
A blonde chick with
big tits...2 or 3.
^ESTHER: 2 or 3 tits?
feahh.. .lots of tits, big
tits, just tits.
|n     A pool table.
Like I was telling
Nancy yesterday -
more James Brown.
A lot of money and happi-
36
DilSjfiSi
Nothin'.
A pleasure package to me is
serving God, okay?
Pleasure...the Bible says,
delight thyself in the Lord
and in His law and ye shall
find light. The Bible says - /
throw life and death before
you - you choose life or death;
Jesus or hell; Jesus or "the
Devil.
My mum's not going
to hear this is she?
ESTHER: She might but
she won't know it's you.
/ can't think - there's too
many. Ask him...
ESTHER:  What would
you expect?
Purity.
No comment.
A fuck.
Meow. Fun.
•ctivity, some     Money.
ESTHER: And
Money.
ESTHER: And?
roll
have
music.       Money.
A pound of marijuana.
I want a big guy with a
big cock, a really nice-
looking tall dark and
handsome guy who
would sweep me off
my feet...show his box
to me., that's the main
thing...and if he's big-
ger than eight inches
he has me - he has to
bend though. He has
to have long hair, really hairy. He has to
have every toy in the
world and he has to be
into S&M too. When
he's screwing me he
has to pull my hair
and call me a sweet
nasty bitch.
/ hope my spirit will always
be a beautiful one and I'll
always have the ability and
be enough of a little boy to be
scaredenough to enjoy pleasure.
PLEASURE
The world.
Sex toys, bubble
gum...umm...paperclips
Uhh...this guy dead, with his
entrails dripping..andahh...a
girl.
No hassles, no hangups.
A walk in the park.
Good friends and beer.
A   complete   set   of
Tintins. .
Chewing gum.   £&£ #•
649.
hf
SEPTEMBER 1988   37 DISCORDER asked the DJs and other important CiTR types for two reviews of
recent (preferably) material (lp, cassette or other) related to the kind of stuff
that would be played on their show. We requested one positive and one negative
review in order to give an impression of where the reviewer stands. Some responded just as requested; others refused to be critical; others did just whatever they felt like.
Gavin Walker
THE JAZZ SHOW
MONDAYS 9:00pm-12:30am
What am I doing writing this?...I do a jazz show
on CiTR that emphasises hard-core acoustic jazz
(from all eras)...I play very little fusion (jazz-
rock) or "pop jazz" (Sanborn, Kenny G.
etc.)...why? First of all, who wants to hear ersatz
when the real thing is available in abundance, and
so seldom gets aired on the radio? So why in hell
am I going to take a quick, critical peek at two
albums that are closer to fusion than the jazz I
choose to play on my show? One record that I
have no hesitation in playing on the show is by
Oregon (the album on ECM called Ectopia). The
other album, which you'll never hear on The Jazz
Show is by the Zawinul Syndicate.
ZAWINUL SYNDICATE
The Immigrants
(CBS)
Zawinul's album The Immigrants is, by contrast, a bad melange of boring drum machine
thumps and very very few musical moments. The
record attempts some different approaches (trendy
West African chants, some slick solos that are fine
from a technical stand-point, and the odd nice
texture) but no jazz feel at all. Herr Zawinul (who
still can play great jazz) has purposefully moved
away so far from his jazz roots that there is no
swing or real groove to these pieces. It's not
anything I would ever want to hear on a jazz
program and if I did I'd get really angry. Zawinul
can come up with something beUer than this. I
hope he does.
OREGON
Ectopia
(ECM 1354)
The album by Oregon is a wonderful example of
sheer musicality and the intelligent use of electronics (synthesiser, wind-driven synth, drum
machine etc.). Paul McCandless (reeds etc.),
Ralph Towner (guitars, piano, synth etc.), Glen
Moore (acoustic bass), and the late Collin Wal-
cott (died in an auto crash in 1984) began Oregon
in the early seventies with the intent of mixing
elements of different music into basic jazz, but
they did it in such a way as to preserve their
musicality and their jazz basis. They continued
successfully with this formula until the untimely
death of Walcott. After a recuperative break they
re-emerged (with Indian percussionist Trilok
Gurtu) to do Ectopia in March 1987. They added
electronics to their sound and it works (even for
these old ears, which do not respond too well to
electricity in music). They also have some great
38 DISCORDER
catchy melodies (Towner's Twice Around the
Sun and Ectopia, and Moore's Leather Cats).
Even though Oregon's approach is still an olio of
styles—folk, baroque counterpoint, rock rhythms,
contemporary classicism—their sound is created
the way a jazz musician would tackle these styles.
That is what makes this album special. They
remind me of Weather Report when it first
began...remember the early albums...fresh, artistic and musical and jazz-based. As soon as Weather
Report began adding too many pop elements their
credibility as an advanced jazz group went down
the tube (but their popularity roscimagine that!).
. Oregon' s got it with this one and the record will be
played a lot on The Jazz Show.
□     D      D     D      □
Matt Richards
BATTERSEA PARK GARDENS
WEDNESDAYS 10:00am-l :00pm
STEVE ROACH, KEVIN BRAHENY, RICHARD
BURMER
Western Spaces
(Chameleon)
This album is more than I expected. Not just your
average "new age" pap. These guys know how to
relax, I mean really relax. This is audio heroin.
And no catchy melodies or attempts at hypnotic
rhythms to get in the way of your personal dream
time. And no contrived image to cloud your mind.
All you can do is listen.
Forget the rest of the shlock in the "new age"
bin. BUY THIS ALBUM. Who cares what it costs
— sell your car, mortgage your home. You don't
need any other record, you can just toss every
record you ever bought. Rush 'em down the
toidy, in the dumper with 'em. This is it, the best
album of the millenium bar none. Except for a
couple of tracks that make me wanna puke.
RUBAJA AND HERNANDEZ
High Plateaux
(Windham Hill)
I've heard some really dull releases from Windham Hill but this takes the cake. Totally contrived
ripoffs of South Americanmusic which is wrapped
in even more contrived packaging. Every note
pops out of the speaker with a little happy face on
it.
If you see this record in a store, leave
immediately. Everything that is wrong with west-
em society is condensed into this album. Fm
serious. This is the worst record in the history of
the record industry. Except for a couple of tracks
that might be good as soundtrack music for a
Fellini movie.
□     □     D     D     D
Chris Buchanan
CITR MUSIC DIRECTOR
KILLING JOKE
Outside the Gate
(EG Records)
A wise man once compared good music to good
wine. Both are vibrant, smooth and make one
want to taste the sweet nectar over and over.
Unfortunately, Killing Joke's new album has
more in common with a bottle of anti-freeze than
a bottle of chablis; not only does Outside the
Gate leave a bitter taste in the mouth, but partaking of a quantity greater than a mouthful makes
you want lo throw up. Since Killing Joke uncorked their self-titled album in 1980 their vinyl
has continued to sour in quality due to an ever
downward spinning cycle of creativity and inventiveness. America, already released as a 12'
single, is the only half-decent produce amongst
this collection of unripe and rotting grapevines.
My advice is to let this album ferment in the
record stores.
D     □     □     □     □
Pete Lutwyche
NEON MEATE DREAM
TUESDAYS 6:30-9:00pm
STUMP
A Fierce Pancake
(Enslgn-MCA)
Stump are a paradox .They are excellent technical
players who are willing to play aggressively innovative fractured rhythms and lyrics that range
from complex explorations of the human condition to schoolboy rhyming jokes like "Charlton
Heston put his vest on". Sometimes Mick Lynch's
lyrics are brilliant insights, and at other times he
shows an inability to relate to even the most
simple trials of daily life. "How do I get off the
bus?" he screams. State of the art digital sampling
technology is placed side by side with traditional
Irish instruments such as pipes and bodhran. The
result, A Fierce Pancake, is a sprawling, busy,
rich and diverse giant of an album that proves
Stump are not a one-off novelty act as many
thought when the tune Buffalo appeared on
NME's C-86 cassette. The musicians are incredible - witness Chris Salmon's trebly twang-bar
guitar suddenly twisting into wrenching rhythms
then shifting smoothly into distant resonant
harmonics. Kev Hopper plays an athletic fretless
bass that pumps, slides and wraps itself around
drummer Robert McKahey 's crisp cross rhythms
thereby dragging you into a bewildering mix of
sound that you can dance to. Mick Lynch is one of
the few vocalists, along with John Lydon and
Morrissey, who have created a truly unique way
of singing. This is a real landmark album of the
calibre of Trout Mask Replica by Captain
Beefheart (though I wouldn't carry the Beefheart
comparison to the music) and, in the words of
Mick Lynch, "Nothing personal is meant, if I
think you're fuckin' clever".
PATTI SMITH
Dream of Life
(Arista)
Just what we need. Already we've had The
Grateful Dead, George Harrison, Pink Floyd
and a seemingly inexhaustible supply of fat old
seventies superstars realising that they need some
extra cash for plastic surgery or cocaine so they
crank out some "brilliant", "triumphant" comeback album. This album is then hyped to the teeth
by record companies unwilling to gamble on new
bands, and is seized by radio stations that cater to
that generation who can sit back in their condos, listen, and remember those radical days before the
kids and the mortgage. Now Patti Smith makes a
"triumphant" comeback, accompanied by all the
marketing hype. Sure, Patti Smith has put out
some great songs, but this is just weak M.O.R.
ear-valium that should ensure at least a million
sales south of the border. Gone is any trace of the
originality that was present on Horses and Easter,
and replacing it is the bland waffle of FM airplay.
Personally, I always thought that she got a pretty
good ride on the back of the punk wave in '77
considering she was basically just another American singer-songwriter, albeit with more acidity
than others of her ilk. This record isn't good and
it isn't bad. It's superfluous, irrelevant and, quite
simply, boring.
Ll      □      □      □      D
Bill Mullan
VOLUNTARY CONFUSION
I've been involved in a number of different
shows in my five years here at CITR: Random
Insomnia, The Sunday Afternoon Show, Random Cacophony, Eating Vomit, Unquiet Slumbers, Love Peace & Violence, Tuesday Weld,
Involuntary Cannibalism. 1 he Beautiful Music
Show and most recendy The I Don't Know
Show. As I write this (mid-August) I'm doing a
show without a name Tuesdays 10am til 1pm,
though by the time you read this (September
sometime), I probably won't be anymore. Oh
well. You've probably gathered that when it comes
to CiTR, I have a tough time being consistent.
Blame it on music (ie: organized sound), and my
overwhelming fascination for its many genres
and forms. Blame it on the infinite variety of
music (new and old) available to me i) through the
station, ii) through my various friends' and relations' record and tape collections, ui) through my
own collection, iv) through the vast collections
new and used in this fine town's numerous record
and tape stores.
There is no single song or record (good or
bad) which epitomizes what I play or don't play
on my show (have or haven't played on past
shows). I have no current favorite (or least favorite) song, record, album, artist. Blame it on that
quantity of available (and intriguing) music again.
In any given week, I might find time to listen to
part of a good two dozen new records, yet I might
not listen to even one of them in its entirety. There
just isn't the time. How can I spend forty minutes
with The Semantics when James Brown, The
JAMMS, Mark Isham and Naked Raygun are
waiting, fueling my curiosity?
As a DJ, I'm interested in how different
songs and sounds can work together in the context
of a radio show (what kind of flow can I sustain or,
if I'm feeling agitated, how discordant can I get?).
How does Bob Dylan in his religious period
bump up against folky-sinister Current 93? How
do Van Morrison and The Chieftains mix out of
that? How does the Canadian Electronic Ensemble mix on top of Brian Eno ambience and
random shortwave radio; and how will acoustic
Led Zeppelin segue up out of this soup? And how
can I find room for twelve minutes of Kristof
Penderecki? GooJ radio is more than just playing
one song after another and then talking about
them.
So what do I like? Simply put, I like music
that would exist even if there wasn't a music
industry, music that comes from the soul or the
brain or the foot, or wherever it is that real live
honest to god aural magic comes from. I don't
care if it's Beethoven, The Beatnigs or Neil Diamond.
What do I not like? Most so-called New Age
ambience leaves me feeling polluted. There's an
awful lot of extremely stupid and unnecessary
hardcore and heavy metal. Too much modem
reggae is vapid pop bleccch. Too many 'hot new'
hard rock bands aren't adding anything to the so-
called '70s dinosaurs from whom Uiey're stealing
all their riffs. This list goes on. Who would I single
out? Sorry, I won't step in mat trap. I seem to
recall not liking Prince at first, or Run-DMC, or
AC/DC, or all disco, or all country & western, or
. .. this Ust goes on, too.
D      D
D     D
Paul Steenhulsen and Ian Crutchley
ARE YOU SERIOUS MUSIC?
SUNDAYS 8:00am-noon
Paul: First of all, I had better clear up what our
show is all about. The idea is to play Twentieth
Century avant-garde concert music. We invite
anyone to send us a tape of their music, whatever
it is, and we'll play it and talk about it. We look
forward to receiving some tapes so we can do
some reviews of the music of some local composers.
There have been some really good releases
lately of older material on CD. I really like the
Messiaen/Lutoslawski double set of discs, as
well as Jan DeGaetan's performance of Pierrot
Lunaire. The vocalising here is very beautiful. I
am also fond of some cassettes sent to us by the
Kuntree Bogees (avant-garde country humour).
Thrashing violins, as found on Elliot Sharp's
Tessalation Row, also score high on my Ust.
Philip Glass, however, is really starting to get on
my nerves. His music, nursery rhymes extended
ad nauseum, is a prime example of die Windham
HHIAiddley-winks kind of New Age nonsense
which is such a bastardisation of my idea of
"serious" avant-garde music. Pity poor Phil.
Ian: New digital recordings have lately (since I
got a CD player) impressed me a great deal. Of
particular interest is Jose Serebrier's reading of
Charles Ives' Fourth Symphony. The conductor manages to reveal to us many details of this
complex score which have been missing from
most other recordings. A more recent recording
that has impressed has been mat of Harmonium
by John Adams. Ibis man has tragically been
grouped in with those other two guys as a member
of the so-called minimalist school. Adams manages, however, on mis and other recordings to rise
above mat label. He displays a depth of feeling
and musicality that is prominently absent from the
robot music of Mssrs. Reich and Glass.
One fairly recent recording has managed to
induce nausea in me. It is Branford Marsalis'
Romances For Saxophone. As a jazz and pop
saxophonist Branford has time and again shown
what a great musician he can be. The question is,
why did he opt for shlock over quality? It's very
sad to see him this way.
D     □      D     D     □
Norm Van Rassel
SWIRLING LIFELIKE COLOURS OF VINYL SPIN
TUESDAYS 9pm-midnight
RAY CONDO AND HIS HARDROCK GONERS
Mondo Condo (cassette)
Independent
If you're into music made by machines or posers
with big hair, you probably won't like this record.
If die authenticity of a slap bass, simple back-
beat, fiddle, occasional accordian, and maybe a
little grease in your hair is your thing, then read
This latest release by Condo and his Goners is good time, let's party, hit the highway (or
backroads), and cruise music. Wedged loosely
between the sludge-and rock-a-billy groove,you'd
almost mink this set was recorded 30 years ago.
But make no mistake, they aren't imitators, these
cats call it like it is.
As the name implies, the first cut Blast Off,
sets the mood to a fast-paced yet loose collection
of tunes (check out Crazy Mixed-Up World,
This Is The Night, Wild Guitar and You Shake
Me Up) that showcases a band mat gives mis
record an edge it can call its own.
Condo is no Pavoratti, but when the mood
strikes he belts it out with the energy and uniqueness akin to the best of the rock-a-billy genre-
Listen to Lonely Wolf, Hot & Cold, and Could
She Kiss and you'll know what I mean. To satisfy
those of us who need at least one good tearjerker,
Mondo Condo ends with an admirable version of
the Elvis classic Don't, to cry into your beer with.
While not totally original (who is?) Mondo Condo
proves that Ray Condo and His Hardrock Goners
are an entity unto themselves. Available at select
outlets, this is a must for anyone with a big car and
rubber to bum.
GONDWANALAND
Gondwanaland
(WEA Aust.)
Gondwanaland's first LP, Terra Incognita on
Hot Records (1984), and 1985 second release,
Let The Dog Out on Powderworks (1985), were
original, almost ethnic recordings highlighting
die gutteral rumblings of Charlie McMahon's
didgeridu, and to a slighdy lesser degree, the
keyboard talents of Peter Cardan. Together
they created a mood that exemplified various
soundscapes pertaining to the Australian outback,
its people, animals, and climate.
On this, Gondwanaland's third outing, we
are confronted by a crossover band hoping to
attract the hard-earned dollars of the techno pop
crowd. Okay, I'll admit the production is marginally upgraded. McMahon, Carolan, and new
member, percussionist Eddy Duquemin, can
sound like studio musicians too. Big deal!
Maybe it's the new label (WEA). It's been
known to happen. Pressure from above. But
where's the substance? Where's the atmosphere?
Where's the creativity? Where's thc.forget it.
If mis had been Gondwanaland's first there
probably wouldn't have been a second, let alone
third.
D     D     D     D     D
Jess
NEOPHYTE DISCORDER WRITER
DEATH SENTENCE
Stop Killing Me
(Fringe)
"Ibis is the new way
The new way is
Bad news."
Bad News describes everything on this
album. Death Sentente have indeed gone a new,
twisted way.
The raucous vocals and guitar licks are
monotonous and ho-hum, making this record one
looonnnggg listen. Motley Crue marries Bruce
Hornsby.
Even the lyrics, written in the Sentence's
pessimistic-but-provoking style, seem to have
had httle effort put into them. Or maybe it's just
the messy arrangement.
See Death Sentence Uve. They're wild and
memos abk. This album is not
SEPTEMBER 1988   39 TRACY CHAPMAN
Tracy Chapman
(WEA)
Freedomfest. Jessye Norman's riveting version
of Amazing Grace was one of two highlights.
The other was Tracy Chapman. Her debut album
is an understated work of art. Fast Car and
Talkin' 'Bout a Revolution, the songs currenUy
being aired to death on commercial radio, are just
two of eleven lyrical and musical masterpieces.
Chapman's vocal range is limited, and the
lyrics are heavy. But it's enough to just lean back
and let the guitar and the voice work their simple
charm. That kind of music just soothes the soul.
d   a    □   d    a
Paula Rempel
THE PTL SHOW
WEDNESDAYS l:00-5:00pm
PAULA'S GUIDE TO MUSIC CRITICISM
A SIMPLE GUIDELINE TO CHOOSING
GOOD MUSIC: If you like it, it is good music,
and screw anyone else's opinion.
A SIMPLE GUIDELINE IN RECOGNISING
BAD MUSIC: If it makes you want to puke, it is
bad music, and screw anyone else's opinion.
See how easy it is? You too can choose what
music you would like to Usten to. There is no
longer any need to Usten to programmed Top 40
radio shows to find out what you should enjoy.
You have the power!!!
SOME MUSIC I THINK IS GOOD: Nick
Cave, Einsturzende Neubauten, The Gruesomes, Hasil Adkins, Bad Brains, Nat King
Cole, and last but not least, Jimi Hendrix.
SOME MUSIC THAT MAKES ME PUKE:
Michael Jackson, any form of muzak in a restaurant or shopping maU, Tiffany, Emerson, Lake
& Palmer, and Bon Jovi, to name a few.
(And if you don't like my choice in music, Screw
You!)
□    □    d    □    a
Peter Courtemanche
ABSOLUTE VALUE OF NOISE
FRIDAYS 3:00-5:00pm
What is Noise?
The best way to define Noise is to Usten to
it, or watch it, or read it?
The Noise music that I've produced involves sound and/or video, but it's possible for
text to be Noise.
Techniques employed in the production of
Noise include edits, overlays, and repetition.
Sources of material include static, machinery,
conversations: "Hello. HeUo, can I help you? Can
you help me." Some of the concepts involved in
Noise include destruction, disinformation: "He
spoke from. His piece of stage until the band tore
it up."
Noise can also abandon syntactical structures Uke sentences, musical notes, beats, dynamics, consistency.
Some of Merzbow, the Haters, Black Humour—the groups or people that produce Noise.
Noise tends to annoy most people, leave
others unfazed, and make some listeners question
the point of the whole thing. As if "things" need
points...
"But it's so mixed up and hard to understand," she says. "It's stupid."
In the words of Charles Bukowski—
The truth at last.
Keith Parry/Sandy Kllby
ENVIRONMENTAL SCATOLOGY
MONDAYS 12:304:00am
THE RESIDENTS
God In Three Persons
(Ralph)
God In Three Persons is easily the Residents'
most ambitious project to date. An hour long
narrative, with accompanying follow-along booklet, God feels more Uke reading a book than
listening to music. Over an almost industrial/
classical background, Mr X in his inimitable
Louisiana drawl takes us on a journey that shows
the Residents as very Uterary and somewhat bril-
Uant composers, as weU as being just a little
twisted (which we've known for years). Posing
heavy philosophical questions, and answering
them, the Residents have made a rare thing...a
great concept album.
THE BUTTHOLE SURFERS
Halrway to Steven
(Fringe)
Once upon a time, the Butthole Surfers were one
great psychotic band. These Austin people seemed
truly fucked up in a brilliant way. Sadly, however,
each succeeding Buttholes album seems more
devoid of anything vaguely creative. Let's turn it
up, twiddle some digital delay knobs, and call it
Godlike. Halrway to Steven is the worst yet,
featuring the dumb gimmicks and rock star antics. Gotta turn your minds off for this one folks.
Real lame. Check out Killdozer's Little Baby
Buntin' instead.
□    a    □    a    a
Steve Edge
THE EDGE ON FOLK
SATURDAYS 8:00am-noon
With such a long show, and such a broad spectrum
to choose from, the selection of a typical LP is
tricky. I think I'U stick with the local boys Spirit
of the West (even if they did leave me off the
credits this time). Their third LP, Labour Day,
contains most of the trademarks of their sound,
and is indicative of the regular content of this
radio show: powerful songs, excellent musicianship, lots of Celtic tunes, and plenty of Canadian
content They are an exhilarating band who can
often be heard on other CiTR shows.
The choice of a bad LP is even trickier. If I
Uke it I'll play it, regardless of the musical style.
However, don't expect any seventies singer/songwriters, synthetic pop music, or navel-gazing
hippie stuff. There's enough of that sort of dross
on the airwaves already.
Having said that about singer/songwriters, I
must point out that I beUeve that we are experiencing a resurgence in this phenomenon. There are
two main types: those who play the guitar to fill
out the sound, and those who fall into the dreaded
category of "guitar heroes". In the former category we find the latest "big thing", Tracy
Chapman, who has shot to stardom, but is nevertheless a fine writer. Closer to home are Calgary' s
Jim Keelaghan, and Ontario's Eileen McGann,
both powerful writers with fine voices. Judy
Small, from Australia, and England's Rory
McLeod are two of the most imaginative lyricists
around, and Michelle Shocked is a real gem.
Along with Billy Bragg, she represents the real
essence of the eighties folkie; great songs, a punk
hangover, and no friUs.
The acoustic axe-persons include
Vancouver's Stephen Fearing, an amazing guitar player with a soulful voice and a fine debut LP.
Catch him Uve at the Van East Cultch on September 25th. The previous evening, Seattle's Sam
Weis makes her Vancouver debut. She plays
twelve-string guitar with tremendous power, and
is also a fine singer. Clive Gregson is an underrated player who writes some great stuff which is
usually sung by his partner Christine Collister.
The "boss man" in both categories is undoubtedly
Richard Thompson. His songs may make Leonard Cohen sound cheerful, but he's written
more classics than anyone since Lennon/Mc-
Cartney, and I have never heard a guitarist with
so many tricks. Check him out, with Ctive and
Chris, at the Town Pump in October.
a    a    d    □    a
Greg Garllck
BETTER HOHMS AND GARLICKS
THURSDAYS 10:00am-l :00pm
THE BARRACUDAS
The Big Gap
(Coyote Records)
Yes, I admit I Uke the trashy and grungy sounds of
sixties revivalists, and those of the Barracudas
are no exception. Except this time. It seems the
folks at Coyote Records decided to release this
hodgepodge of tracks recorded between *79 and
'81.
The liner notes are confusing to say the
least, with no specifics regarding the origin of the
cuts on the LP. Written by Sam Goldberg .notes
are an enthusiastic rambling of what to expect on
the vinyl yet somehow I doubt he listened to this
compilation.
The album in all truth is an exhumation of
old out-takes and dodgy demos. Although there
are a few brief glimpses to suggest the exceUence
the band achieved with their 1981 Drop Out
With the Barracudas, most of thi s stuff is pretty
dire. Don't get me wrong, I Uke the Barracudas,
but they should've kept this one buried.
THE STEMS
The Great Rosebud Hoax
(Citadel Records)
Now here's a record where the sound of sixties
garage comes through. The Stems hail from the
West Coast of Australia, Perth to be exact, and
they recorded a couple of singles and an EP for
Citadel Records a few years back. ThankfuUy
Citadel compiled these tracks on an eight-song
compilation LP. This band sends out some real
stinging hooks and riffs. I mean, I'm talking
twangy Rickenbacker guitars and Hammond
organs; just check Love Will Grow and She's a
Monster. If you Uke the murky snakelike coils of
sound that emanate from records Uke these this is
the LP for you. Unfortunately this record is kind
of hard to find, but believe me it's worth the
search.
Kunlo
GENERIC FRIEND
SATURDAYS midnight until the sun smiles
MOMUS
Tender Pervert
(Creation)
Has Kunio the Friendless One finally found
a friend in Mom us, that wonderful English poet/
singer whose newest album Tender Pervert threw
Kunio into fits of ecstasy when he heard it while
portaging down Yonge Street in Toronto? Never
mind the icky electronic percussion that seems to
foUow Mr Currie aka Momus around wherever he
sings, his compositions are studies in autobiographical frankness that can, and should, stand on
their own. A powerful album. Tender Pervert
40
DISCORDER foUows Momus' late adolescence with quiet reservation highlighted (softUghted?) by, Kunio
beUeves, The Homosexual, Bishonen, and The
Charm of Innocence, none of which should be
presented to even the mildly suicidal. If Kunio did
not fall at this man's feet when he discovered that
Momus acknowledges Joe Orton ("Give me the
abiUty to rage correctly"), then he most surely
swooned when he saw the album cover which
shows a charming Mr Currie with forefingers cum
rabbit ears, standing in front of a blossom-filled
tree. Sigh.
D
□
Larry Thiessen
PLAYLOUD/THIS IS NOT A TEST
SUNDAYS 9:00pm-midnight
DIAMANDA GALAS
You Must Be Certain of the Devil
The trouble with carving a path in the cutting edge
of any field is that once "there", you are expected
to stay "there". Another problem is that artists
with massive amounts of intelligence, discipline
and creativity tend to sound schlocky when they
don't use them. Some people wiU find this album
embarrassing. Ms Galas should. It is an ill-suited
part three of the plague mass trilogy Masque of
the Red Death.
ANTIGROUP
Meon tologlcal Research Vol. One
(Sweat box)
This album came out last year and somehow
missed me. Antigroup succeeds where Clock
DVA didn't in blending variously jazz, experimental sound technology, dance rhythms, ethnics, noise, etc. This one stresses two and five
above. The program notes are reminiscent of
Hafler Trio. There is also an aural similarity in
the sense that both sound crystalline, albeit academic. Antigroup's sounds, however, are
trancelike (Zoviet France) and dark whereas
Hafler Trio are "interesting". There is much here
difficult to penetrate which begs further Ustening.
Not the sort of thing expected of Sweatbox Records. Highly recommended.
Nardwuar the Human Serviette
FRIDAYS 2:30-3:00pm
THE VICTORY MEN
Gonna Move
(Prs 118)
Record coUectors are always talking about how
they found that "super-rare ultra cool disc" in a
Salvation Army Thrift Store for only 49 cents.
Well, since I am the nerdy do-it-all-better type, I
just couldn't resist venturing into a Thrift store
and trying to find that treasured platter. So on July
21, 1988 I spent a good dose of time searching
through the North Van branch of the SaUy Ann.
After a few hours I found it! A sixties record from
Vancouver, with the cover depicting four hipste
posing in front of the Planetari urn. Imean WHO
DAD! This group, who I had never heard
before, were caUed the Victorymen and boy, dm
they look totaUy boss. The record was quickly
purchased by me, the new-fangled coUector, and
taken home to be worshipped for centuries to
come. However, when I looked closely at the
record, its true flavour emerged. This was a reti-
gious recording by a bunch of church members
who "weren't interested in becoming social dropouts". Their record label was aptly named Praise
Records, which claimed to offer the "finest sound
in the world of sacred music". Now some "church"
albums are groovy, but this one is downright
filthy malarky, with songs such as Give Me
Jesus, Jesus Knows about You, I Will Live for
Jesus, and God Will Take Care of You. In fact,
the Ustener can only hear the vocals, which I'm
sure was the whole point of this record. Despite
the controversial segments of this disc it does
have a uniquely Vancouver appeal. And they
should deserve some credit for trying to cheat and
deceive the teenagers of the 1960s into intensified
reUgious devotion. For their gallant efforts, I
declare Gonna Move by the Victorymen the best
and worst 49 cent record I have ever bought.
Demo-god Dale Sawyer
RADIO VOMIT
MONDAYS 3:00-5:00pm
CAPTAIN CRUNCH AND "LET'S DO LUNCH"
Five-song demo
One of the tapes that has recently caught my
attention is not a Vancouver demo at all, but rather
one that has found its way to CiTR from that old
Francophonic village on the other side of this
ultima thule called Canada, i.e. Montreal, Quebec. Calling themselves a "folk-core something-
or-other" (Vancouver bands should be so quick to
label themselves so succinctly just to make it
easier on us serfs on the other end of their demo
tapes), these guys get a weU-deserved position on
my personal demo haU of fame just on the strength
of their brilliant songwriting alone. One track, the
infectious Captain Groovy and His Bubblegum
Army, is so catchy and is performed with such
verve that it's enough to make the Fleshtones
hide behind their mop-tops. Other tunes, Uke
Jennifer M. and Another Left Wavo, also have
that classic potential. Don't let the folk-core
deceive you into thinking that these are contrived
Replacements imitators. Their influences are
more deeply rooted in mid-sixties radio pop; this
may be a weU-trodden path, especiaUy in these
parts, but Captain Crunch use it to their advantage
to create a poppy, feel-good sound that should do
quite weU for them.
CRASH DUMMIES
Live at the Terminal City
Lawn Bowling Club
This is the latest cassette from the Crash Dummies, the band that dares to walk the fine line
between innovation (REMEMBER THAT?) and
whimsicality. It's titled Live at the Terminal
City Lawn Bowling Club (I have a few theories
as to the possible origins of that name—maybe
you, dear reader, could field a few yourself). Its
six tracks feature the prominent (read: loud) vocals
and phalUcaUy-obsessed lyrics of musical wun-
derkind Paul backed up by noise cohorts Michael
on guitar and glockenspiel, plus Alex on bass. The
band doesn't do too many Uve gigs so your best
chance at exposing yourself to their music would
be to get your hot tittle hands on one of their many
cassette projects of recent months. Their music is
harsh and abrasive — in fact it kicks more butt
using a drum machine and electronics than most
stuff I hear on demo these days. A couple of beefs:
the singer's aforementioned fascination with
sexual matters — one track, Is That Glue?, deals
with the hapless hero's attempts to explain the
presence of a spermazoid substance on his
girlfriend's tummy to an intruding mother —
makes one feel Uke one is sniffing someone else's
underpants. As well, my attempts to puU a single
cut for airplay are hindered by the way the individual songs run together.
Oh weU, the latter's reaUy my problem and
if you can overlook the former then you wiU be
rewarded with lyrics that are a scream — check
out Nadia, Nadia in which reminiscences about
lusting after former Romanian Olympic gymnast
Nadia Comaneci are delivered in a style that
resembles Gene Chandler giving Bulgarian choir
music a shot This music is like nothing you've
ever heard before and frankly, deserves much
more exposure. That's where I come in.
THE BRIDE STRIPPED BARE
Eight-song demo
This one has been kicking around for several
months but it does merit some attention oppor-
tuned by this column. Like the Crash Dummies,
they are trying something different; unlike the
Dummies they play Uve and are much more
serious in their approach. (Hey, they even do a
version of King Crimson's Red.) However, this
doesn't mean they can't be a whole bunch of fun,
as in Thank Heaven for Little Girls, their cover
of the Werner and Lowe tune. They do run into
some trouble with their anarchic version of
American Woman (used Butthole Surfers albums, anybody) and in the ultimately overdrawn
Danger Funk. But overaU the accompUshed musicianship of the individual players wiU never let
you down and this offering, which includes their
awesome rendition of Sonic Youth's Schizophrenia, bodes that these guys are definite contenders for respectability and recognition in the
alternative (huh? what's that?) music world.
□     □     □     □     D
Rob Lorenz
SOUP STOCK FROM THE BONES OF THE
ELEPHANT MAN
FRIDAYS midnight-5:00am
THE TEXAS INSTRUMENTS
Sun Tunnels
(Rabid Cat Records)
The tittle label that could has done it again. This
time Austin-based Rabid Cat Records, the same
folks who brought you two utterly disturbing and
wondrous Scratch Acid releases plus numerous
hardcore acts Uke N.O.T.A. and the Offenders,
have once again penetrated indie charts and hearts
with the latest project from The Texas Instruments. Comparable to Dylan with a thorn in his
side, this modest young trio remain true to their
folk calling through lyrical content by reflecting
upon a number of social ills; Some Kinda Surprise, The Daily Image, and The Thing in
Apartment B. Sun Tunnels is the band's second
release on Rabid Cat and represents a further shift
for the label to a more accessible product
THE SUGARCUBES
Life's Too Good
(Elektra Records)
Next to whale by-products, the Sugarcubes are
undoubtedly Iceland's hottest export. Unlike the
senseless slaughter of whales, the Cubes are much
more palatable with their off-beat dance rhythms
and black sense of humour. Note these tines from
Birthday,' ...she's five years old, threads worms
on a string, keeps spiders in her pockets, coUects
fly-wings in a jar, scrubs horseflies and pinches
them on a tine". Female singer Bjork's sinister
voice contrasts weU with Einar Orn's made-for-
Stu Jeffries vocals. This however is not the stuff {
SEPTEMBER 1988   41 1 guess I'm the eternal studenL but it's
always September arid not January
that feels like the first month of the
year to me. So this is the first Local
Motion of the new year, and time to discuss
this column's philosophy.
Local Motion doesn't want to be any
kind of definitive statement about what's
happening in Vancouver - it's just a little
column that tries to fill a couple of gaps in
Discorder (which, like CiTR, is pretty well
everything). And so, just as Discorder's always looking for more contributors, Local
Motion needs tapes and bios and general
gossip notes and stuff - the more the better.
So if you're in a band, please send (or drop
by) demos and news (but just remember that
our deadline is a lot earlier than most people
think - something Uke three weeks before an
issue comes out).
Unfortunately, too, with all the huge
amounts of tapes that do roll in, I usually only
get a chance to review a fraction of them, and
sometimes it seems as if it's supernatural
factors that decide which ones they are (but
hey, I'm trying...). So this month instead of
talking about some of August's cooler gigs
(like Corsage and the Enigmas at the Town
Pump), I'm going to try to cover as many
demos as possible:
Feast of Fools - "Victoria" Now these
four fellas are from Calgary, which for some
reason (along with BC's capital) is the source
of most of my favourite demo tapes. Maybe
I'm just a sucker for lyrics like "You leave
me in euphoria, Victoria," but (in spite of a
slightly strange and muddy mix) this charmed
me. This song has two very important things
going for it (important for pop songs, I mean)
- you can sing along with it after the first
chorus and it doesn't go on and on and on...
Dan Danger - "Wish Away Your
Days" Dan's a guitarisL locally famous for
having been in Stubborn Blood, and it's the
guitar that's strongest in this song. The intro
reminds me a bit of the Enigmas' Pancho
Villa and the guitar continues on in that sort
of vein - unfortunately the vocals don't seem
well-enough recorded to go along with it,
and the drums sound almost one-handed. But
this is a good, well-written song and it'd be
nice to hear it under better circumstances.
Tin God - "Contradictions" Once
again a pretty good song but I couldn't help
feeling that Mike Graham's lyrics (on the
theme of doublespeak) weren't working well
with Doug Andrews' vocals, which come off
as almost sneering.
Tombstone Etiquette - "Lies" This is
a not bad song with a nice hook or two but I
don't think the gimmick of the female backup
vocalist singing along the with the lead vocals
works most of time here. Maybe if the arrangement were more Uke Cannon Heath
Down's "The Light That's In Your Eyes" (a
damn good song), or at least if the vocals
were a little lower in the mix..?
Poona!Poona!Poona! - "Lips Were
g: ' of Good Rockin' Tonite as the band tests the
limits of commercial viability with songs Uke
F***ing in Rhythm and Sorrow, and the album
cover and sleeve which are laden with caricatures
of male and female genitalia.
□    a    ana
Rockin' Patrick
THE KNIGHT AFTER
WEDNESDAYS midnlght-4:00am
PUBLIC ENEMY
It Takes A Nation of Millions To Hold Us Back
(Def Jam)
"You can dance to it and it's got a good beat, I'U
give it a 95..." Not that Dick Clark would ever
have them on American Bandstand—No seUout
here. Radical rappers mix metal, gospel, samplings, stolen beats and poUticaUy correct lyrics.
Terminator X is brilliant again. Party for your
right to fight. Cold feeling my power.
PATTI SMITH
Dream of Life
(Arista)
Why? Did she need the money or is she so out of
touch that she believes Dream lobe good? Patti
should have gone the Ian Curtis way. Nothing
will ever equal Horses. Certainly not this pablum
meant for yuppies to play on their BMW CD
decks.
D     Ll     Ll      □
DISCORDER
Ll
Kirby Scott Hill
TRIBES AND SHADOWS
TUESDAYS 3:00-5:00pm
PAUL SERRET
Tapis Volant
Tapis Volant, released in 1987 by Vancouver
based santoor player Paul Serret, describes itself
as a "magical musical adventure". The santoor is
a tonal, stringed instrument indigenous to Iran.
Paul has traveUed to Iran and Egypt to study the
instrument, the playing techniques and its relativity to the Iranian culture. In the hi-tech eighties,
santoor players are hard to come by, especiaUy in
Iran where the Ayatollah has banned music.
Serret explores the tonal dynamics of the instrument, taking it beyond its cultural references,
to relate his own experiences as an artist. On this
his second album, Paul incorporates contemporary technology and instrumentation with the aid
of local players Mohammed Sadek (darbuka),
Geoffrey Wakefield (synthesizer), and Russel
Shumsky, Leslie Fiddler, and Bill Mutual (percussion), and has produced a richly textured,
'world music' oriented LP.
Cuts such as Troubador highlight Paul's technique. Mostly however, the album concentrates
on textures, with the distinct instrumentation
coherently blending into song tapestries, as the
title suggests.
Accessible to New Music/New Age/ World
Music fans, this album also demonstrates that
quality new music is being conceived and produced in Vancouver.
Made For Kissing" Wow, this is silly - it
could be the product of a John Trubee school
of songwriting. A funny spare sound - bass,
harmonica, vocals and some high, thin drums.
The tape, entitled Clutch of the RodenL came
with an excellent bio note linking the band to
burritos and Ice Capades, among other things.
Last Wild Sons - "Northern Hillbilly
Man" Formerly the Rockin' Edsells, these
guys share their drummer and vocalist with
the Nervous Fellas, another really good (and
fun) rockabilly band. Nice clean effective
arrangement and production but perhaps not
as swingin'/rockin' as a couple of the other
songs on the tape. Great vocals.
Raised by Wolves - "Slimeball
Soulman" Not knowing anything about
jazz or Winnipeg (this band's home town), I
can't say much about this tape, except that I
Uke it. It's fast, it's hard, and the female
singer's impressive.
Terminal City - "City Love" Yeah, I
already raved about this tape last month, but
I'll plug it again. Terminal City's working on
putting out a record, and if there was any
justice in this world they wouldn't have to be
doing this demo thing anymore (so there).
Zorga - "Mist Filled Forest" Not the
usual CiTR fare. Loaded with panning, trilling flutes and extremely nicely recorded.
Actually better than I've probably made it
sound.
Mark Chalecki - "A Waltz" I can't
say why this reminds me of things I've heard
at the planetarium - it's pleasant enough
synth piano in 3/4 (of course) with hissily
recorded voices coming in here and there.
How and why these particular phrases (e.g.
"every government is oppressive") were
chosen I cannot say. Quite interesting, actually.
Deisme - "Minute" From a 20-song
cassette of industrial-type stuff by a guy in
Toronto. In a way, it reminds me of a lower-
key, guitarless Butthole Surfers track, but
that could just be me.
Playdoh Republic - "Burnt" I miss
Playdoh so I'd like to say I enjoyed this, but
"Burnt" is a bit too difficult to listen to for
me. Odd rhythms, and melody. Odd everything, actually (but people who can count
past four ought to be attracted to the emotion
and stuff).
Andrea's Fault - "Bewitched" We've
had this tape since February, so, to be fair, I
should say the band could be a lot different
now. The vocaUst can sing but she does seem
to be posing, and the lyrics ("Don't fight the
change/Breakdown/I feel the power/When
you're around") are often cliches. Some really
unappealing synth, too.
Crazy Fingers- "Navigation Strange"
These guys are much loved by local Deadheads but this song doesn't do much for me
- the guitar feels really busy and maybe just
beyond what the guitarist is comfortable
playing. Everything, even the vocals, sounds
somehow cluttered to me, as if someone in
the band thought the song was too simple and
then set out to complicate it. Long, too.
Janis wlAuxJL,
CiTR
L01.9 fM
"But I can't pick up CiTR," you say. BuU shit.
You're just lazy. You could improve your reception of CiTR by simply putting a tittle effort into
it. Stick your clothes hanger or some other kind
of antenna to your receiver. Buy a cable splitter
from your local stereo shop and tap into cable FM.
Better yet, yank the cable from your TV, plug it
into your receiver and leave it there. Besides, TV
causes brain cancer. Stick CiTR in your ear!
SPECIAL BROADCAST
Tue, Sept 6:
LIVE FROM THE PLAZA — CiTR Radio &
Bob's Your Uncle 8:15am-5:00pm
Come to the Plaza outside UBC's Student Union
Building and treat your senses to Uve radio and a
rock concert, too. CiTR presents local quirky
popsters Bob's Your Uncle — two sets broadcast
Uve from the Plaza at 11:30am and 12:30pm.
Some of CiTR's grooviest DJs mix up the rest of
the day's aural assault. So be at the Plaza or go to
your radio...your choice. Everybody deserves an
earful on the first day of classes.
DAILY HIGHLIGHTS
MONDAYS
ALIEN WATCHDOG 1:20 3:00pm
OK space cadets, stay tuned... Updates on UFO
sightings, discovery of Alien babies, and the
rumoured extraterrestrial landing on September
21 st. Also the newest and oldest tunes from local
bands and, of course, your requests.
CRAPSHOOT 5:30-6:00pm
School's starting again and those crazy and deranged Crapshooters are back for more zany action. The panel includes a Liberal (or reasonable
facsimile thereof), a Tory, a New Democrat, and
our favorite, a member of the Christian Heritage
Party.
HOT PINK 6:0O8:00pm
Ex-Life After Bed host Garnet Harry does what
he does best: absolutely nothing.
MORE DINOSAURS 8:00-9:00pm
Songs of the Sixties behemoths and the teenage
garage triceratops.
MONDAY          TUESDAY       WEDNESDAY    THURSDAY          FRIDAY          „,„„,.„
1 SATURDAY       SUNDAY
$        **
#
%      f*
DL.T
The
Spice
of Life
The
Saturday
Edge
Are you
Surrey
Us
Music?
Pest
Control
Batter sea
Park
Gardens
Better
Hohm's
&
Garlick's
m Soup de Jour
mmmmmm
REPORT
Power
Chord
The
Rockers
Show
v.
Alien
Watchdog
Blood On
The Saddle
The
PTL
Show
'   *
EXPO 66
Nardwuar
:it  jH
In Context
The
PTL
Show
(Cont)
Mike
n'
Gav
Absolute
Value of
Noise
Neophilc
The
Blues
and
Soul Show
Tribes &
Shadows
NEWS, SI    •                   HKR< GENERIC REVIEW, INSKJHT AND DAILY FEATURE
Deadly
Doom
CrapShoot
Fine Lines
B.C. Folk
Talk
The Radio Show
Hot
Pink
After
The
Goddess
The
Vinyl
Frontier
Interference
Sat Magazine
Sttn. Magazine
Neon Meate
Dream
Radio
Infrequency
Just Like
Women/
Electronic
Smoke
Signals
More
Dinosaurs
The
African
Show
Top Of
The Bops
The
Jazz
Show
Swirlin'
Vinyl
Spin
The
Can-Con
Job
Stomp On
That
Boppa-Tron
Tunefc
'R'Us
Playloud
This Is
Not
A Test
Permanent
Culture
Shock
Aural
Tentacles
The
Knight
After
•
*
Soup Stock
From The
Bones
Generic
Friend
In The
Grip
Of
Incoherency
" Environmental
Scatology
7:30
8:00
9:00
10:00
11:00
12:00
1:00
2:00
3:00
4:00
5:00
6:00
7:00
8:00
9:00
10:00
11:00
12:00
1:00
2:00
3:00
4:00
THE JAZZ SHOW 9:00-12:30am
Vancouver's longest running prime time Jazz
program hosted by the ever-suave Gavin Walker.
Sept 5: Wynton MarsaUs' first "Uve" album. The
phenomenal Mr. MarsaUs with his Quartet (now
defunct) recorded at the "Blues AUey" in Washington, D.C.
Sept 12: "Soultrane" is a classic album by tenor
saxophonist-innovator John Coltrane. Recorded
during the late fifties when the Coltrane style was
beginning to take shape, it features Coltrane with
Red Garland (piano), Paul Chambers (bass) and
Arthur Taylor (drums). Also an interview with
Coltrane recorded in 1960.
Sept 19: Something educational...A History of
Jazz narrated by the late, great alto-saxophonist
Jutian "Cannonball" Adderley. Ibis informal
and easy-to-take history of Jazz from its beginnings to 1960 (when this was recorded) is sttil one
of the best records of its kind.
Sept 26: "GO!" is the title of what is considered
by many to be the best album by the great saxophonist Dexter Gordon, the living Jazz legend
who starred in the movie, "Round Midnight".
Here he is in prime musical form with Sonny
Clark (piano), Butch Warren (bass) and Mr. Btily
Higgins (drums). Recorded in 1961 on Blue
Note.
SEPTEMBER 1988   43 TUESDAYS
PEST CONTROL 10:00 -1:00 pm
The diabotical Jerome Braodway delivers humming sounds and killer bee updates.
BLOOD ON THE SADDLE l:20-3:00pm
Every Tuesday, music to scrape the cowshit off
your boots to. Host: Jeff Gray.
IN CONTEXT 3:00 - 4:00pm
Hosted by Kirby HiU.
Sept 13: Margie GilUs discusses "Dance in Context". Legends of Africa: Miriam Makeba and
AbduUah Ibrahim.
Sept 20: Again, a look at Dance in Vancouver.
Interview/profile: Private Music's Tangerine
Dream.
Sept 27: The first performance of the Vancouver
New Music Society's 88/89 Season. Interview/
profile: NONO MIYA.
TRIBES AND SHADOWS 4:00 - 5:00pm
Host: K. Scott HiU.
Sept 13: "Indigenous Music" from Egypt, India,
Africa.
Sept 20: "Room for an Art" Part IV: with Graham McGarva, Chief Planner for Pacific Place.
Sept 27: Egyptian Paradigms.
FINE LINES 5:306:30PM
Literary criticism and review in a Canadian vein
from the studios of CFUV, the radio station of
UVIC.
NEON MEATE DREAM 6:309:00pm
"Neon Meate Dream", the radio show, wishes to
stress that it has no connection with "Neon Meat
Dream", the 24 hour non-stop auto-erotic video
massage parlour and hamburger bar. Any similarity in content is entirely accidental, and the
producers of the show would Uke to apologize for
any possible inconvenience or embarrassment
WEDNESDAYS
D.L.T. 7:30-10:00am
Darren, letttuce, and tomatoe.
BATTERSEA PARK GARDENS
10:00-l:00pm
"Rotting flowers, rotting Ginsberg, rotting basements, stifling mildew, time to cut and bum."
THE P.T.L. SHOW 1:20 - 5:00pm
Quite simply...Paula, the Radio Sex Goddess,
Takes Liberties. Rock stars interviewed, too.
B.C. FOLK 5:30-6:00pm
Who are B.C. folk? Listen to the thoughts and
music of B.C. Folk artists.   Hosted by Barbara
Waldern.
AFTER THE GODDESS 6:008:00pm
It's only PsychotechnoindustrialpopUkedisco-
raprock, but we Uke it.
THE AFRICAN SHOW 8:009:30pm
The latest in modem African dance music plus/
minus a few oldie-but-greats and extras.   Your
host: Umerah P. Onukwulu. Welcome.
THE KNIGHT AFTER midnite-very late
44 DISCORDER
Rockin' Patrick and his pals Ralph (the wino) and
Juan Valdez present music to do maintenance
drinking by. Pick up a 24 pack, bolt your speakers
to the house frame and turn it up. MARLIN
PERKINS MUSICAL HOUR brings you more
amazing sounds from places you never heard of.
This month: Nox, Sorority Sampler, Penny Kemp,
Feltini and F/I.
THURSDAYS
THE MIKE AND GAV SHOW 3:00-5:00pm
Mike has returned from the jail time he spent with
Jerry Garcia for sodomizing tie-dyed T-shirt seU-
ers, Gav keeps on trucking.
IT'S JUST TALK WITH RJ M00RH0USE
5:30-6:00pm
A talk show committed to bringing the issues
before you, the concerned listener.
Sept 15: Telereg: Was It Worth the Hassle?
Sept 22: Gays & Lesbians of UBC: Should the
Student Countil fund them?
Sept 29: The Socreds: Fact or Fiction?
TOP OF THE BOPS 8:0O9:00pm
Hosted by Marc Coulavin.
CAN CON JOB 9:0Omidnite
If you'd Uke to perform your music Uve on this
show phone Deded during the show (228-2487).
Sept 1: Against the Grain and The Evaporators
Sept 8: Excited First Daughter
Sept 15: Crazy Fingers
Sept 22 & 29: TBA
FRIDAYS
THE NEW EXPO '66 l:2O2:30pm
Uve from the pavitions of the WORLD'S MUSIC
FAIR.
NARDWUAR THE HUMAN SERVIETTE
PRESENTS... 2:30-3:00pm
Every show we feature a cut from the Victorymen' s
album, "Gonna Move."
Sept 2: "Give Me Jesus"
Sept 9: "Jesus Knows About You"
Sept 16: "I WiU Live For Jesus"
Sept 23: "God WiU Take Care Of You"
Sept 30: "Who Am I?"
THE RADIO SHOW 5:306:00pm
Join host Andrea Lupini and friends for in-depth
coverage of the Vancouver Fringe Festival (Sept.
2nd and 9th), the music and writing of Miriam
Makeba (Sept. 16th) and the usual misceUany of
commentary on the local scene.
INTERFERENCE 6:009:00pm
For maximum enjoyment of this program, please
turn your radio off. 100% live mix—Beware of
imitations.
SOUP STOCK FROM THE BONES OF THE
ELEPHANT MAN midnight-5:00am
Sept.2:   West Germany's Orgasm Records
Sept.9:    Virgin's extensive African folk music
division- Earthworks
Sept.16:  Texas Hotel Records
Sept.23:   Various independent music from Europe
SATURDAYS
THE SATURDAY EDGE 8:00am noon
Vancouver's biggest and best folk/roots radio
show is hosted by Steve Edge. U.K. soccer
reports at 11:30, and then "The Compleat Monty
Python".
POWER CHORD 12:15-3:00pm
Vancouver's only true metal show, featuring the
underground alternative to mainstream metal:
local demo tapes, imports and other rarities. Metal
Ron and Gerald Rattlehead do the damage.
NE0PHILE 3:0O5:00pm
For the newest of the new, Usten as John and Chris
(the ones who get our records) tear off record
wrappers.
DEADLY DOOM OF DARKNESS
5:00-6:00pm
Delve into a nightmarish pit of despair and remorse with your host Dudley Do-Dread. Dark
and Dancy music.
RADIO INFREQUENCY 6:309:00pm
♦♦Summer Rental (1985,Comedy). John Candy,
Karen Austin. An overworked air-traffic controller and his family head for Florida for a tittle rest
'n' relaxation that turns out to be catastrophe 'n'
calamity. (3 hrs)
TUNES 'R' US 9:00-midnight
The incredible music show from two incredible
people. Join us for three hours of fun and footish-
ness. But mostly music!
GENERIC FRIEND midnite-sunrise
(I'm serious)
B/PoC/M n/s n/d n/e early 20's, chubby, bespectacled, naive ideatist seeking Uke companion on a
perhaps futile trek to delve through the depths of
humanity to find that Nirvana that must exist
somewhere. Tune in and hear a truly pathetic
person.
Dec 24: Special Christmas Eve Special
Dec 31: Special New Year's Eve Special
SUNDAYS
ARE YOU SURREY US MUSIC? 8:00am
noon
A Spaniard and a Dutchman from the far side of
the Fraser play big hits and other noises that some
folks caU serious music, and others caU shit. Your
hosts, Igor and Arnold, do not know or care who
is right. Turn up your earphones to maximize the
damage to your brain.
THE ROCKERS' SHOW 12:15-3:00pm
Reggae, Rock Steady, and Ska. News and interviews about Reggae music worldwide. With your
host: George Barrett.
BLUES, BLUES, BLUES/SOUL CITY
3:00-6:00pm
This is the real stuff from the Deep South — the
Deep South side of Chicago. There's also West
Side Blues, Gospel, and Soul from the Motor City
to the Mississippi bayou.
JUST UKE WOMEN/ELECTRONIC
SMOKE SIGNALS 6:30-9:00pm
Sept 4: WOMEN: In recognition of the Labour
Day weekend, we wiU be talking about women
and the work they do that goes unrecognised.
Sept 11: SMOKE SIGNALS: Feature report on the 2nd National Convention and Gathering of the
Greens. Speeches from the International Uranium
Congress plus our regular news roundup and
listings of community and political events.
Sept 18: WOMEN Our back-to-school show
on health for women on campus.
Sept 25: SMOKE SIGNALS: Feature report on
the emerging Greens movement in the USSR,
with a discussion of the social and ecological
implications of "Glasnost" and "Perestroika".
Continued coverage of the International Uranium
Congress.
PLAYLOUD/THIS IS NOT A TEST
9:0Omidnight
Which aberration made the only sensible deed,
suicide, the sole right of the afflicted?"
(E.M. Cioran)
Aural surgery performed by Larry Thiessen.
IN THE GRIP OF INCOHERENCY
midnight til the cows come home
Your unintelligible hosts Bareman and Guido
bring you mayhem in the wee hours.
NEWS HIGHLIGHTS
WEEKDAYS
THE CiTR MORNING NEWS 8:00 - 8:20am
A "cut the Crap" style wake-up report. AU the
trimmings, as well as a FEATURE REPORT and
UBC Digest.
THE CiTR AFTERNOON TEA
1:00 - 1:20pm
Live from London, England, the BBC World
Service. Local news, sports and weather served
promptly after. Sorry, no scones.
THE CiTR NEWS MAGAZINE
5:00 - 5:30pm
Our in-depth half hour report, with a FEATURE
REPORT focusing on UBC and the Lower Mainland.
FEATURE REPORTS 8:00am & 5:00pm
MONDAY FEATURES
Sept 12: Can UBC computers replace the game of
golf?
Sept 19: The UBC Uthoprobe project: how B.C.
once looked.
Sept 26: How one's culture affects decision
making.
TUESDAY FEATURES
Sept 6:  Time Management: sorting out a busy
life.
Sept 13: A new UBC telescope that sees further
than ever.
Sept 20: Vancouver Quadra's new NDP runner.
Sept 27: A great tooth decay weapon that's being
ignored.
WEDNESDAY FEATURES
Sept 7: UBC's research saving trucking industry
millions.
Sept 14: Finding gold on trees.
Sept 21: Vancouver's ESL crisis.
Sept 28: A pesticide that's harmless? You bet.
THURSDAY FEATURES
Sept 8:  Canada's own Stonehenge: The Medicine Wheels.
Sept 15: Your auditory guide to a fitness test
Sept 22: The dangers of short-term famine retief.
Sept 29: Asian expertise: what North Americans
are lacking in the business world.
cSptrf list-
ARTIST
MALCOLM'S INTERVIEW
CURRENT 93/NURSE WITH WOUND
VARIOUS
JAMES BROWN
THE TIMELORDS
JOY DIVISION
VAN MORRISON &THE CHIEFTAINS
WIRE
IGGY POP
SHRIEKBACK
DEPECHE MODE
WORLD DOMINATION ENTERPRISES
♦ART BERGMANN
DIAMANDA GALAS
♦PLUNDERPHONICS
SEVERED HEADS
PUBLIC ENEMY
THE LOOTERS
♦THE SHUFFLE DEMONS
♦MOEV
PETER TOSH
PATTI SMITH
♦FOUR THE MOMENT
SHORT DOGS GROW
PALADINS
KILLING JOKE
BEATNIGS
REVOLTING COCKS
THE WEATHERMEN
YOUNG FRESH FELLOWS
♦AFTER ALL
MANUFACTURE
JOHNNY CLEGG AND SAVUKA
VARIOUS
ZOOGZRJFT
* DENOTES CANADIAN CONTENT
TITLE LABEL
BREAKFAST IN BEDLAM     SPECIAL DELIVERY
FAITH'S FAVOURITE YANKGI
ANGEL DUST BLAST FIRST
I'M REAL SCOTTI BROS.
DOCTORTN' THE TARDIS KLF RECORDS
SUBSTANCE FACTORY
IRISH HEARTBEAT MERCURY
A BELL IS A CUP UNTTL... ENIGMA
INSTINCT A&M
GO BANG ISLAND
ROUTE 66/BEHJND THE WHEEL MUTE
LET'S PLAY DOMINATION CAROLINE
CRAWL WITH ME DUKE STREET
YOU MUST BE CERTAIN OF... MUTE
ELVIS IGOR COUNT DOLLY MYSTERY LAB
GREATER REWARD NETTWERK
DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE DEF JAM
FLASHPOINT ISLAND
BOP RAP STONEY PLAIN
YEAH WHATEVER NETTWERK
THE TOUGHEST EMI
DREAM OF LIFE ARISTA
WE'RE STILL STANDING JUST A MINUTE
MATT DILLON ROUGH TRADE
YEARS SINCE YESTERDAY ALLIGATOR
OUTSIDE THE GATE EG RECORDS
BEATNIGS ALT. TENTACLE
UVE WAX TRAX
THE BLACK ALBUM ACCORDING...     PLAY IT
AGAIN
TOTALLY LOST FRONTIER
BULLETS CAPITOL
ARMED FORCES NETTWERK
SHADOW MAN CAPITOL
TIME BOMB SKYCLAD
NONENTITY SST
FRIDAY FEATURES
WHAT HAPPENED THIS WEEK IN THE
NEWS? Tune in and find out.
UBC DIGEST
8:20am, 12:30pm, 4:00pm, 7:00pm
Aired four times a day, cryptic messages about
what's happening here on the campus next door to
that world famous sun-tanning strip.
WEEKENDS
THE CITR BRUNCH REPORT
12:0O12:10pm
THE SATURDAY/SUNDAY MAGAZINE
6:00-6:30pm
UBC DIGEST 12:10pm, 4:00pm
SPORTS HIGHLIGHTS
THUNDERBIRD FOOTBALL Saturdays
Sept 3: Alberta at UBC, 6:30pm
Sept 10: SFU at UBC (Shram Bowl), 7:30pm
Oct 1: Saskatchewan at UBC, 7:30pm
Oct 15: UBC at Alberta, noon
Oct 22: Manitoba at UBC, 7:30pm
Oct 29: Calgary at UBC, 1:00pm
SEPTEMBER 1988   45 Sonic-SEijled Clam Chowder
CiTR is 51 years old. The
flower yuppies of 1967 are
now 21 years older. New
babies are born every day.
Things have changed. But
hey, what's the scoop on those misguided,
acne-clad teenagers of the mid-sixties? Well
my friend, they were a weifd grungy bunch
of angst-ridden youths who expressed their
feelings through wild, zesty, hamburger-
flavoured music. Here's the proof: take the
case of the Sonics from Tacoma, Washington, a band of gentlemen who could blow
away any group, anytime, anywhere with
their sheer onslaught of intensity. Not only
were they the ultimate garage rock gods of
the sixties, but they were also extremely
popular in the Pacific Northwest. Their
single The Witch was the Northwest's greatest selling single next to Louie Louie by the
Kingsmen. They were innovative and excit-
Whidheif Island-.
"Babylon of the N/V?
Smothered in the comer pf the
Northwestern United States is
a quaint and picturesque place
called Whidbey Island. Known
for its Naval Air Station located
in Oak Harbor, Whidbey Island is often referred to as "the best kept secret in the Navy".
Why? The answer is simple: active duty
Navy personnel all have experienced the
bountiful fishing, hiking, sailing, and hunting of the island. No other naval base in the
United States is able to provide such fringe
benefits to its men and women. Nevertheless, Whidbey Island is a Naval Air Station,
and the fun can only last as long as the
Admiral desires. The sound of freedom is
what really matters.
ing; however, the question still remains as to
why the Sonics did not make it big, The
answei might be explained as "geographical
isolation", for the Northwest is nuzzled into
a comer of the continent seldom frequented
by talent scouts. Unfortunately, the Sonics
felt that they could become nationally known
by staying in the Pacific Northwest. They
were wrong, and by the time the Sonics had
switched from their independent label (Etiquette) to a local label with national distribution (Jerden) the tide had turned on them.
Maybe they should have moved to LA. Could
that have been their ticket to stardom? Well
anyway, in late 1966 tragedy struck - the
Sonics broke up. The Sonics were not one hit
wonders, but were at least 12-hit wonders in
the Pacific Northwest. Just as well they never
really made it big anywhere else, for we here
l in the Northwest need our very own daily
Idish of Sonic-styled clam chowder.
John Ruskin
The people of Whidbey Island are a
simple, common, friendly, patriotic breed
who are totally dependent on the Navy's
$315 million investment in the island. Economically, it would be a disaster if the Navy
were to leave, so most people on Whidbey
Island are fuUy behind the idea of having the
Navy's tactical electronic warfare squadrons
hovering above their backyards. Also, Jesus
does a lot of listening in the city of Oak
Harbor where there are over 25 churches in
a town of only 13,400. There are still many
other neat places to visit, such as the beauteous Deception Pass State Park and the
interesting Fort Casey; however, none rate
higher on the Ust than the local bastion for
all ages rock n' roll - Babylon Music and
Art It is an old movie theatre that has been
converted into a record store/concert hall.
Since opening up a few months ago, all-ages
concerts with the Accused, Nomeansno,
The Scramblers, and The Angry Samoans
have all left their mark on the sweet and
tranquil city of Oak Harbor. Jean, the bright
and colourful owner of Babylon, has decorated half of her store with the image of that
godlike eye printed on every US dollar bill.
She is also very interested in recruiting some
Canadian rock n' roll talent to help infiltrate
the minds of the local American concert-
goers who frequent her club. (Bands thinking about playing in Whidbey Island should
call Jean at 206-675 7262.) From Vancouver it's only a 2 hour drive to Oak Harbor,
and as a further scenic driving bonus you get
to pass through the oil-drenched city of Ana-
cortes. While you're there, stop at the local
nightspot Los Amigos (709 Commercial
Ave) where native all-age teen zit bands The
Pounding Serfs, Dead Logs of Hypocrisy,
and Lounge Love have all been rumoured to
play. So, come along if you dare, come along
if you care, come to the golden and sacred
land of Whidbey Island.
John Ruskin
46 DISCORDER 8261 OAK STREET. VANCOUVER, B.C. V6P4A8
(604) 266-1298
1405 HUNTER ST.. NORTH VANCOUVER V7J 1Ha
(604) 987-1975
306 FITZWII.L IAM ST   NANAIMO, B.C. V9R 3A5
(604) 754-4335
SKATEBOARDS £
100% Cotton Skate and Surf T-Shirts   J
Sweatshirts and Sweatpants
Components and Accessories
BEST PRICES, PD's HOT SHOP
* «e
7«~   c*.' Wt.C^
RJNQION
BEFORE
FASHION
,/: Introducing Rough Trade
Recording Artists MONKS OF DOOM
TUESDAY SEPT. 6
THE COMMODORE
liii
mmmmmmm
mmmmrn*.
ill
c*
CITR FM 101.9 presents
Polygram Recording Artist
BILLY
BRAGG
with special guests
FRIDAY SEPT. 23 &
SATURDAY SEPT. 24
THE COMMODORE
with Special guest
From Nigeria
OLIVER
deCOQUE
plus from L.A. CRY ON CUE
FRIDAY SEPT. 16
THE COMMODORE
BOYS
with guests
CLIVE GREGSON &
CHRISTINE COLLISTER
WEDNESDAY OCT. 5 &
TUESDAY OCT. 6
THE TOWN PUMP
*<\.
fltffllhb
ALLTICKETS
Ticketmaster/VTC, Zulu, Black Swan,
Highlife & Track Records.
Charge by Phone 280-4444
Capitol Recording Artists
RICHARD
THOMPSON
BAND