 SEPTEMBER 2012 ■ THAT MAGAZINE FROM CiTR Wh% FM
SUPPORTfHS VANCOUVER'S ItfBlikltOENT MUSIC CSMMirNltY FOR-NEARLY 3 UPCOMING SWPWS
RED KROSS
DANTE VS. ZOMBIES, RANDOM CUTS
| THE GROWLERS
HALLOW MOON, COSMONAUTS, PLUS GUEST
SH0W8UNK
| THE FITS, PLUS GUESTS
I THE CRACKLING
CORBIN MURDOCH &THE NAUTICAL MILES
KOOL KEITH
J^DSWJHJHEHELP
BIO FREEDIA AND THE DIVAS
I PEACH COBBLAH
OLIO FESTIVAL feat BID SINISTER   $r
NO SINNER, HARD DRUGS, DIRTY SPELLS a
m
I
+S/C
adv
sckets online: liveatrickshaw.com
in store: Red Cat, Scrape, Zulu
+19
doors 8PM
+S/C
adv
sckets online: Itveatricksli3w.com
in store: Scratch
+19
doors 8PM
+S/C
tickets available
onlineonlyat
liveatrictehaw.com
+19
doors 8PM
+S/C
adv
tickets available
onlineonlyat
ltveatrtckshaw.com
+19
doors 8PM
;+s/c
iadv
tickets online: llveatrickshaw.com
in store: Red Cat, Zulu
+19
doors 8PM
RiCKSttAW
254 East Hastings Street • 604.681.8915
OLIO FESTIVAL feat. 8RASSTR0NAUT
JON COHEN EXPERIMENTAL AUNTS & UNCLES
ARIEL PINK'S HAUNTED GRAFFITI
DAM FUNK, BODYGUARD
«
$18+a
in store: Highiife, Red Cat, Zulu
5 online: oliotestival.com
e: Beat Street, Red Gat, Zulu
tickets onHne: tteketweb.ca
n store: Highlife, Red Cat, Zulu
+19
doors 8PM
doors 8PM
+19
doors 8PM
+19
doors 8PM
0CT4TH    THE LIVING, MARIA IN THE SHOWER
OCTSTH BLACK WIZARD, occult ss, plus guests
OCT 6TH THEE OH SEES, sic alps, the highway kind
OCT 20THCALEXIC0, the dodos
0CT22ND THE WHIGS, the record company
0CT25TH 8ALM0RHEA,siskiyou
Additional show listings, band bios, videos and more are online at
wNAAA^Jiveatrickshaw.com
shindig
Every Tuesday eveKlvvj from* September 11 to
December 4- oi tke Railway Club*
Tkree ref resklKg baKcis Klgktln, aKd Dokes for Been
Visit kttp://sklKcUgxltrxa for full sekedule.
thank you sponsors:
ams events
backlme musician services
band merch Canada
discorder magazine
fader master studios
the hive creative labs
mint records
music waste
nxne
scratch records
vogville recording
zulu records EDITOR'S NOTE: WHAT I DID ON MY SUMMER VACATION
This summer was fun. I got to play with my friends and ride bikes a lot. I slept
in everyday, too. Sometimes we went to the beach when our parents would
drive us. But that only happened a few times because sometimes it was so
rainy and sometimes it was too hot. One time, I was walking on the rocks
and I slipped and cut my knees on the barnacles, but then my mom put some
BandAids on them, and I looked tough. I had a lot of slushies, too. Probably
too many, but they are so good, so I think it's okay.
The end.
Now it's back to school time, hey kids? If you aren't going back to classes,
then you're likely just being constantly reminded that summer is nearly
through. Either way, I encourage you to get outside and enjoy. Soak it in like
you did in elementary school when those precious few months were the most
coveted and important of the whole year. Do it.
Not that there's much to be down about this September. Like what? Like
the kick-off of SHiNDiG, CiTR's annual three-month battle of bands, where
groups like Japandroids and Three Inches of Blood got their start. Like features
in this issue on d.i.y. label Kingfisher Bluez; black moss-eating, electro-goth-
playing trio Gang Signs; and psych-rocking, yard-saling quartet Nam Shub.
This month also marks the first of five issues where we'll skip jauntily down
memory lane with past Discorder artists and contributors in honour of the
magazine's upcoming thirtieth birthday in February, 2013.
This summer has indeed been fun, and it isn't even done. Get out and play.
I'll meet you at the swing sets.
Read on and stay rad,
^Laurel Borrowman
FEATURES
REGULARS
09 Gang Signs Three friends, a proverbial parents' basement, a mouthful of black moss,
and a banana-flavoured creamy vodka beverage. 11 Kingfisher Bluez Tim Clapp talks
shop about slangin' records in Vancity. 14 Nam Shub Nam Shub is a yard sale.
16 Musical Theatre The 2012 Fringe Festival is so much more than a heap of quirky
plays. There's a heap of music, and it's free. 17 Animal Collective Nine years ago,
Discorder put Animal Collective on the cover of a magazine for the first time. Now, they're kind
of a big deal. 19 The Critical Hit Show: Live D&D Comedy Experience It's just as
nerdy as it sounds. And you'll laugh your ass off.
04 Playtime Die Roten Punkte
05 Textually Active Encyclopedia Gothica
06 Venews Lucky's Comics
20 Calendar Joel Rich
22 Program Guide
25 Art Project Michael Shantz
29 Under Review
32 Real Live Action
38 On The Air Shake A Tail Feather
39 Charts
EDITOR Laurel Borrowman
ART DIRECTOR Jaz Halioran
COPY EDITORS Jordan Ardanaz, Steve Louie
AD COORDINATOR Maegan Thomas
UNDER REVIEW EDITOR Jordan Ardanaz
RLA EDITOR Steve Louie
WEB EDITOR Chirag Mahajan
CALENDAR LISTINGS Claire Eagle
ACCOUNTS MANAGER Corey Ratch
OFFICIAL TWEETER Dorothy Neufeld
CITR STATION MANAGER Brenda Grunau
PUBLISHER Student Radio Society of UBC
STUDENT LIASONS Zarah Cheng, Dorothy Neufeld
COVER Ashlee Luk
CHECK DISCORDER.CA
REGULARLY FOR NEW'",
ARTICLES, PHOTOS, AND
ALL THINGS MUSIC
RELATED!
WRITERS Chris Adams, Josefa Cameron, Robert
Catherall, Bepi Crespan, Fraser Dobbs, Clinton Hallahan,
Ariel Fournier, Tristan Koster, Chirag Mahajan, Joni Mck-
ervey, James Olson, Andew Reeves, Chris-ljlflik, Nicola
Storey, Maegan Thomas, Angela Yen
PROOFREADERS Chirag Mahajan, Tristan Koster
PHOTOGRAPHERS & ILLUSTRATORS Jonathan Dy,
Tyler Crich, Anne Emberline, Alex Heilbron, Michael Lee,
Ashlee Luk, Chirag Mahajan, Aaron Read, Joel Rich, Michael
Shantz, Jade Su, Katayoon Yousefbigloo, Priscilla Yu
©Discorder 2012 by the Student Radio Society of the University of British Columbia. All rights reserved. Circulation
9,500. Discorder is published almost monthly by CiTR, which can be heard at 101.9 FM, online at www.citr.ca, as well as
through all major cable systems in the Lower Mainland, except Shaw in White Rock. Call the CiTR DJ line at (604) 822-2487,
CiTR's office at (604) 822-3017, email CiTR at stationmanager@citr.ca, or pick up a pen and write #233-6138 SUB Blvd.,
Vancouver, B.C., V6T1Z1, Canada.
ADVERTISE Ad space for upcoming issues can
be booked by calling (778) 866-9952 or emailing
advertising@citr.ca. Rates available upon request.
CONTRIBUTE To submit words to Discorder, please
contact: editor.discorder@citr.ca. To submit images,
please contact: artdirector.discorder@citr.ca
SUBSCRIBE Send in a cheque for $20 to #233-6138
SUB Blvd., Vancouver, B.C., V6T 1Z1 with your address,
and we will mail each issue of Discorder right to your
doorstep for a year.
DISTRIBUTE To distribute Discorder in your business,
email distro.discorder@citr.ca We are always looking for
new friends.
DONATE We are part of CiTR, a registered non-profit,
and accept donations so we canjirovide you with the
content you love. To donate visit www.citr.ca/donate. DIE ROTEN
PUNKTE
MAEGAN
THOMAS
illustration by
TYLER CRICH
Meet Astrid and Otto Rot, or Die Roten
Punkte (the Red Dots), the "German rock band" whose musical tales
of burger store dinosaurs, robots who
are lions, and one-eyed aliens who
love to rock out, have captured hearts
from here to Albania. Litde information exists about their origins before
their debut Super Musikant (whose only
clues are personal, revelatory stories in
songs like "I'm In A Band"). But what
is apparent is their effect on audiences.
While their personalities could fill GM
Place, it's the Fringe Fest and the theatre stage
where you'll get to experience their new wave
punk musical theatre inspired by the Ramones,
Madonna, Brian Eno, and Lady Gaga.
"We won best comedy in Victoria. They
just kept laughing at us, and we can hear them
just won Pick of the Fringe in Winnipeg. "It's a
nice feeling because we're like the cool kids,"
Otto told then-CiTR Arts Director, Adam Janusz,
in 2011. Or tried to tell him, as Otto and Astrid
don't converse as much as lovingly bicker.
"There was a great bar called the Albert..."
Astrid interrupts Otto with her own favourite
"NASA SENDS US TO THIS NEW PLANET. IT'S CALLED CAPRA22B
IT'S A REAL PLANET, AND THEY THINK THAT LIFE IS THERE..."
laughing and stuff," says Otto (lead singer/
keytar/Ioops). "It's weird for us but we have
this manager and he books us into comedy
festivals and theatre festivals, and stuff. It's
a little bit weird. He is not normal. I don't
think he's very good at his job," says Astrid,
who is also the lead singer—a disputed
fact—drummer.
So say the very serious musicians who followed Super Musikant with sophomore release
and very serious art rock project Kunste Rock.
But their manager must being doing something
right because the awards keep piling up.
When they last came to Vancouver, they had
aspect of Winnipeg.
"There was a picture of her in the front of
the newspaper, she was lying in a gutter, " Otto
interjects.
"I was having a great time"
"It was a bad photo, she was lying in a pool
of sick..."
"No, it wasn't, it was tahini from my falafeL"
This time in Vancouver, they present
Eurosmash! When Discorder spoke to them this
summer, they were still arguing about the
makeup of the band, whether Astrid was on
vacation or in rehab, and how their parents
died—it's either a lion, a train, or a lion on a
train. The "arty" rock, developed in a concrete
bunker by expensive music scientists, has given
way to bigger and shinier things. Like "Smash
Your Hearts Together," the number one Albanian
dance hit Blame the bill from Kunste Rock and
Otto's love of the Glee Project.
"We hang out and watch the Glee Project on
the television."
"Don't tell them that That is not cool!"
Astrid says.
Otto describes their song about how
"NASA sends us to this new planet It's
called Capra22B. It's a real planet and they think
that life is there and when we get there we find
one-eyed aliens and we rock out with them." With
such diverse material, Discorder asks how fans
should prepare for a Die Roten Punkte show.
"They should prepare to wave their tentacles
in the air."
Astrid sagely concurs, "That's one of the lines
from the song." Indeed it is, Astrid. Indeed it is.
Die Roten Punkte performed at the Cultch Aug 28 to
Sept 2. Visit discorder.cajbr a review, and to truly
understand Die Roten Punkte, watch their uideos at
dierotenpunkte.com. ENCYCLOPEDIA
GOTHICA(2oii)
written by
L1ISA LADOUCEUR
by BEPI
CRESPAN
illustration by
PRISCILLAYU
Liisa Ladouceur knew she
always wanted to write a
book about Goth. Referring
to herself as an "unpopular
culture journalist," Ladouceur
admits her heart is in finding stories in the
shadows and bringing them to the mainstream.
"I've written for everyone from The Toronto Sun
to The National Post and more recendy [horror
magazine] Rue Morgue; When I got the idea for
Encyclopedia Gothica about three years ago, I knew
this was the project that I wanted to do."
"Goth is about the beauty and the romance
of death and decay and the darkness," explains
Ladouceur who introduces the book with a sec-
don called What Is - "What Is Goth?" "It's such a
common and annoying question that I had to
write an entire book to answer it! It's just looking at the dark side with a bit more of a swoon."
Coldwave. Columbine. Wednesday Addams.
Count Chocula. Floria Sigusmondi. Skinny
Puppy. These are just a sample of 6oo-plus
terms and phrases deemed relevant enough
to Goth cinema, music, fashion, history, and
lifestyle to be included in the book. Ladouceur
hopes to one day write a book about Skinny
Puppy. "I don't think they get [recognition]
for being one of, frankly, only a handful of
Canadian artists ever, in any genre to have created something that had a global influence,"
explains Ladouceur. "Taking industrial noise
and horror and making it danceable, I thought it
was pretty radical/
"I include the Columbine massacre because I
think that it did change the public perception of
■mjffi^
"Bauhaus" illustration byGARYPULLIN
(art director, Rue Morgue)
young Goths in North
America a great deal,"
says Ladouceur. "I think
it has greater ramifications that extend to the fact that a lot of new
Goth bands would never call themselves Goth,
because what Goth was really changed a lot
because of that event*
Dark and menacing, Rue Morgue Art Director
"...A LOT OF NEW GOTH
BANDS WOULD NEVER CALL
THEMSELVES GOTH, BECAUSE
WHAT GOTH WAS REALLY
CHANGED A LOT BECAUSE OF
THAT EVENT."
Gary Pullin's original illustrations breathe
further gloom and decay into Ladouceur's
manuscript
"I've been surprised that a lot of people have
overlooked them," admits Ladouceur. "Instead
of using one of his amazing illustrations, magazines and newspapers who review the book end
up using still images from a Tim Burton movie
or something [laughs]. I don't get that!"
In addition to cover duties, each of Pullin's
24 illustrations is used to introduce a chapter,
like Bauhaus for Chapter B, Joy Division for
Chapter J, and so on.
Ladouceur recounts presenting Bauhaus' Peter
Murphy with a copy of Encyclopedia Gothica on a
recent tour stop in Toronto "I showed him Gary's
Bauhaus illustration and he's like, 'I remember
that jacket!' since it's based on a real photo of
them. Then he said, 'Why are you giving this to
me? I'm not Goth!'" continues Ladouceur. "All
Goths say they're not Goth. And then my girlfriend says to him 'Then you have a lot to learn
from this book!'"
I'll admit the Cold Waves + Minimal Electronics
and Minimal Wave Tape collections get a lot of
attention on Bepi Crespan Presents...Show (Sundays
7am to 9am on CiTR), and I've been known to
blast Alien Sex Field from my SUV on the way to
my kids' sumo practices, but my lifestyle is about
as Goth as Lou Sekora's. Regardless, I found
Encyclopedia Gothica to be a very compelling and
entertaining excursion into the subcultural phenomenon known as Goth: still misunderstood
and misrepresented three decades into its history,
yet very visible on mainstream radar. LUCKY'S
by ARIEL
FOURNIER
illustration by AARON READ
Even though Lucky's Comics has been at2072 Main
Street since 1995, live music shows are a relatively
new venture for the store. When you enter, it is
immediately obvious why: the place is both tiny
and filled with books. Regardless, it's being made
into an all-ages venue all its own.
Owner Gabe Winder says Lucky's began hosting
sporadic shows in the back room
gallery a few years ago. Since then,
it has evolved from a mosdy comic
and book store into a sort of comics and arts hub. The feel is a little
more family friendly, as indicated
by the paper crafts in the front, and it appeals to a
broader audience, as indicated by the huge range
of illustrated books available.
Though concerts are not entirely new to Lucky's,
in the last few months they have emerged as a staple.
Shortly after Music Waste in June when Kellarissa
and Slight Birching played, Will Anderson ofWeed
started curating monthly shows. His idea is to create an all-ages shows in the space with a variety of
music genres.
"I remember what it was like to be 17 or 18 and
being in town where you couldn't see your favourite bands play. Now being 19-plus, I often think it
would really cool for a teenager to see this concert
and maybe be inspired." Hosting concerts also fits
with Lucky's emphasis on providing a community
space for art events and book launches, and the odd
soundscape project for artists in the area.
make things a little more reasonable, the shows
are now often held in the front room, which has
slighdy more space; it's still small and cosy, and
actually the perfect venue for an intimate show.
It's unpretentious, fun, and noisy.
During September, the tables and shelves
will be moved aside for more soon-to-be-
'I REMEMBER WHAT IT WAS LIKE TO BE 17 OR 18 AND BEING
IN TOWN WHERE YOU COULDN'T SEE YOUR FAVOURITE BANDS PLAY."
In addition to the shows during Music Waste,
Lucky's has hosted Johnny de Courcy, The
Courtneys, White Poppy, and Waters. Its challenge remains that it is small, even for a bookstore.
The room for gallery exhibitions doubles as the
music space in the back. While overflow can spill
into the back Jane—where Winder keeps his tools
for building bookshelves—maximum capacity is
still about 20. In the past they have managed to
maximize the use of space, hosting a cramped
audience in the gallery with a full drum kit. To
regular monthly events. Coming up, a mere
five dollar cover will get you into Cascadia and
Hemogoblin (September 20).
Lucky's website also lists upcoming events
including readings, gallery exhibits and the occasional 'zine making workshop. And whenever the
store is open, Lucky's always carry comics.
Visit Lucky's on the regular/or books, comics, music, art,
and more at 3972 Main Street and at luckys.ca T2TTTI? TTTT^rmJlTXT
FULL SERVICE REPAIRS • TOOL RENTAL
INSTRUCTION • NEW AND USED PARTS
:M^^^0^WM-    •     POSITIVE     SPACE
UBC CAMPUS, SUB BUILDING BASEMENT
WWW.THEBIKEKITCHEN.COM
604.827.7S33
GET INVOLVED AT CITR! CITR AND AMS EVENTS
Come to our OPEN HOUSE! 12-5      PRESENT...
WORKSHOPS
UPCOMING LIVE
BROADCASTS
NARDWUAR'S VIDEO
VAULT 2.0: BACK-TO-
SCHOOL EDITION!
Panda, Heatwave, The Oh Wells,
Capitol 6, and Jay Arr
inning, Strategizing,
lanaging + Fundraisinj
Show Hosting 101
Wednesday, Sept 26, 6-8 p
Shake It Off: The Accept*
Moru
iNa
lay, Sept 10.
dwuar the Human
BECOME A
viett
s, LIVE, as he talks and
mixing and bea
^s<:l
3S from his audio & videc
It of
nterviews.
DJing 101.9. C
in October.
101.9FM on the dial. Live stream + podcasts: CITR.CA HISTORIC NIGHTCLUB ♦ TIKI BAR F THE FUNNEST PUCE ON EARTH
H
UPCOMING FEATURE EVENTS
09/05
The Men w/ White Lung^Guests
09/06
Kishi Bashi w/ The Last Bison
rm 09/07
The Hundred In The Hands
SAT 09/09
Chain & The Gang * Early Show*
Jonathan Toubin's Soul Clap Dance Party
09/09
Eternal Summers w/Bleeding Rainbow
09/10
Nite Jewel w/Gang Signs j Bobby Draino
09/12
Christopher Smith w/Belle Game
09/13
The Aggrolites w/ D J Jonny Was
FBI 09/14
Royal Canoe w/Krief *Early Show*
SAT 09/15
Maria in the Shower Accordion Noir Festival
FBI 09/21
Ryan Hemsworth presented by OLIO
09/20
Maria Minerva w/White Poppy
FM 09/28
Love Dancing presents: Axel Boman
For full event listings please visit www.waldorfhotel.com
* Entrance every FRI + SAT also comes with admission to a multiroom party
in the famous Tiki Bar and downstairs nightclub space the Hideaway.
O 1489 EAST HASTINGS ST Q/WALDORFHOTEL Q @WALDORFHOTEL
W^k PERRYSC0Pe
lL2i !  „	
THE WHITE
BUFFALO >
with Horthcota
SEPTEMBER 15 | II etecOUIl
ROYAL WOOD ^
OCTOBER 20
THE RIO THEATRE
1 MANGA
N 0 V EIIER
MEUMII ., %$t$&Meat & The Georgia Straight present
Kishi Bashi
with guest The Last Bison
THURS. SEPT6
THE WALDORF CABARET
1489 EAST HASTINGS ST.
Tickets at Red Cat, Zulu and www.nightheat.ca
mat
The Georgia Straight and NightHeat Entertainment present
THE AGGROUTES
with guests Valuables
& DJ jonny Grayston (soul club)
THURS. KPT 13 doors 8pm, Show 9pm
THE WALDORF CABARET
1489 East Hastings St.
Tickets also available
@ Red Cat Records & Zulu Records
Nightheat, The Rio Theatre & The Georgia Straight Present
An Evening with
Bebel Gilberto
TUES. OCT 2
8 pm
RIO THEATRE I860 E. BROADWAY
Tickets also available @ Zulu, Red Cat & Highlife Records
The Georgia Straight and NightHeat Entertainment present
SIX ORGANS OF
ADMITTANCE
with guests
TUES. OCT 2
doors 8pm, Show 8:45pm
THE WALDORF CABARET 1489 East Hastings St.
Tickets also available <§> Highlife, Red Cat Records & Zulu Records
www.nightheat.ca
The Georgia Straight & NightHeat Entertainment present
MOON DUO
with guests
Life Coach (member of Trans Am)
& Mirror Lake
FRI. DEC 7 8pm
BILTMORE CABARET 395 Kingsway
Zulu, Red Cat, Highlife Records
OTHER SEPT 9:
UPCOMING        ETERNAL SUMMERS & BLEEDING RAINBOW
SHOWS THE WALDORF
0CT21:
EMILIE AUTUMN
THE RIO THEATRE
OCT 28:
RASPUTINA WITH GUEST NIM VIND
THE WALDORF '%#   1  111   II
photos by •
ASHLEE LUK
illustration by
JOEL RICH
In the middle of a lengthy email thread attempting to coordinate-band, photographer, and writer
schedules for an interview with Gang Signs,
Discorder received an unusual request.
"How about we all eat something odd/gross
and chase it with something even more potent/
gross?" wrote Gang Signs' Peter Ricq. The idea
quickly evolved into a kind of game, where members of the band would consume a food and
beverage combination given to them by lottery.
'Make two combos yummy! One gross one!" Ricq
said over email.
Come interview time, Gang Signs' three members,
Ricq (guitar/vocals), Matea Sarenac (sampler/vocals),
and Adam Fink (drums), are crowded together in
their tiny jam space on East 2nd, confronted by
three mysterious packages. Selecting first, Ricq is
rewarded with two slices of leftover mushroom pizza
and a canned version of Jack Daniels and ginger ale.
'Hey, all right," he says, pleasantly surprised.
"I want the pizza!" says Sarenac, reaching out next
to pick next "Oh, wait, I want this, whatever this is.
What is this? A piece of cake?"
Ricq eyes Sarenac's treat, "I kind of want to all
share now."
"Can we?" Sarenac asks, taking up the beverage
portion of her combo, a can of fruit juice and tequila.
'I like this game."
Observing the band go through this strange food
surprise exercise feels like sitting with a group of
teenagers in their parents' basement, trying to stave off boredom by creating a game out of whatever is at hand. Each person is
willing and good humored, but at the same time somewhat retiring and seemingly unconcerned with the outcome. There is an atmosphere in the interview
thatyou can hear in Gang Signs' music as well, a kind of lo-fi electro thathas
been dubbed by listeners as "slacker dance."
"It's like, you want to dance, but you don't have to," says Ricq. "It's perfect
It's how I feel all the time."
From across the small room, Fink reaches forward for the final package.
"I'm going to have to eat something gross now," he sighs, inciting laughter
from his band mates. The others look on as Fink draws a flat plastic package
from the bag.
"What is that? Hair?" asks Ricq.
'" 'Black Moss'" reads Fink from the package, "I don't even know what black
moss is." With little else but the name to go on—the back of the package reads
simply, "ingredients: black moss"—and the fact that it was found in the dried
foods section of T & T Supermarket, Fink opens the package and removes a
clump of wiry black fibres. "You want to see me eat this? All right"
"It looks like pubic hair," says Ricq.
"Oh my god," comments Sarenac, "I would not eat that shit"
"Oh no," says Ricq as Fink grabs a hold of his beverage. "What is that?"
"Mmmmmmmmmm," Fink says sarcastically, reading his drink label.
"Banana flavored creamy vodka beverage."
Everyone in the band shares in the spoils of the game. Sarenac eats most
of Ricq's pizza. Everyone tries the moss, as Fink says, "It honestly doesn't
taste like anything. You want some on your pizza?"
Sarenac refuses and Ricq say, "It's like eating fucking pubic hair. You
can't even chew it" Their easy and familiar way with each other evokes the
air of lifelong friendship, an impression belied by their very disparate places
of origin. Sarenac was born in Croatia, her family immigrating to Canada via
Toronto in the mid '90s, eventually moving west to Vancouver where she's
lived most of her life. Ricq hails from Montreal, a fact given away by his lightly
inflected English. And Fink, raised in Whitehorse, bee-lined for Vancouver
after graduating high school in order to play music.
It's obvious from listening to the band talk that their love of music binds
them together. Fink, a self-described music freak, has played in bands since a
young age and keeps a handful of projects in rotation, just like his bandmates.
Ricq, possibly best known as half of the dance act HUMANS, has added Gang
Signs and another side project, Ladyfrnd, to his list of his extra-curricular
activities. Sarenac keeps busy as winniecooper.net associate and DJ, Wobangs.
When asked about previous band experiences, Sarenac recounts her days as
a 15 year-old member of local pop sensation Mystique.
"We had a single called 'Mystique Knows How to Party' and there's a
music video too." She teased us, revealing that the only way to see the video
wasonVHS.
Discussing the origins of the Gang Signs line up, Ricq recalls seeing Sarenac
sing Patsy Cline's "Crazy" at karaoke one night "When she sang it was like
[makes a rapturous face]... Wooooah, I gotta start a band with that girl!"
"I always had the idea of starting a band with a girl. I think it's pretty neat
- that voice? Having that juxtaposition of male and female, I find it is very...
inviting. And Adam is always just down to play drums."
"Yean," agrees Fink, "we've known each other for a while, if s just one of
those things."
That "thing'' is now manifest in an eight-song self-titled
EP, released this August The band's take on how the EP came
together seems nothing short of synergistic. Songwriting and
recording at home in his spare time earlier this year, Ricq
got the bulk of the material ready for the rest of the band to
record with—21 songs in total. Once Sarenac's vocals were
recorded, all that was left was the drum tracks, which Fink
pounded out in a single session at Watershed Studios.
"And it wasn't because we were short on cash or had any -
limitations," Fink is careful to clarify. "Everything just seemed
like it worked. It was exactly how we wanted it to sound."
Following their EP release party at the Cobalt on August
31, the band is slated to open for Nite Jewel on September
10, at the Waldorf. Later in the month they will be a part
of a Winnie Cooper-sponsored showcase at the Biltmore on
September 21 during Olio Festival. Beyond that, no grand
plans are being schemed, besides spreading their spooky,
synthy pop through the airwaves and across the globe. "We're
doing this EP so people outside of Vancouver get to know
us," explains Ricq.
Unsure of what the future holds, the band cracks open
some fortune cookies to wash away the taste of the black
moss and maybe catch a glimpse of what's to come. But then
we added "in bed" to the end of each fortune.
Ricq: You will soon receive compliments on your style [in bed]
Fink: An appeal for some assistance may catch you off guard
[in bed]
Sarenac: A new approach will bring you greater career success
[in bed] KINGFISHER
BLUEZ
Cool music
coming out of
weird places
byANDREW
REEVES
photos by
JADESU
lettering by
MICHAEL SHANTZ
If one spends enough time in Vancouver, it
becomes all too common to hear people bitch
and whine about the frustrations of trying to be a
musician in a city that appears more interested in
erecting condos than investing in culture. However, local musician, producer and personality
Tim Clapp, a.k.a. Tim the Mute is never one to
complain. If anything, the exuberant entrepreneur has done the total opposite. By creating the
indie label Kingfisher Bluez, Clapp has opened
new fields of potential for underground artists
in Vancouver. Discorder met with Clapp at Dandelion Records and Emporium oh Main Street,
where he can be found working his day job to
support his fledgling label.
Growing up on B.C.'s Sunshine Coast Clapp
was drawn to music as a way to cope with small
town monotony. "Coming out of Robert's Creek,
there was nothing to do. Pretty much the only
thing I had was sitting at home listening to
records," he explains, "Itwas the only thing I
could do with myself in high school. Going to
record stores was a big thing. We'd just save up
our money and then on a weekend come into
Vancouver and hit all the record stores, and it
was so cool to be coming back on the ferry with
bags full of records. I loved it I'd spend my entire
paycheque just on vinyl." This passion for music
grew into the desire to start his own label when
he became intrigued by how they were produced,
mixed, and released. "It seemed to be just as interesting as who was playing on them. I like the idea
of sort of curating that Having a roster of artists...
like a perfect collection of records."
After moving to Vancouver seven years ago,
Clapp started Kingfisher Bluez as a digital-only
label, with the intention of one day putting out
vinyl. That vision first came to fruition last year;
with the release of the Sebastian Fleet/Count Oak
split seven-inch. Several other releases followed,
including Clapp's own solo compositions on the
seven-inch Anything You Want, and more recently 1 with local psych-punk outfit EEEK!. Moreover, Clapp has new
I releases slated before 2012 is over, like Vancouver Island's Zen
I Mystery Fog, and a Xiu Xiu single called Quagga.
1    "It's sort of like experimental synth drone stuff. I feel like [Xiu
I Xiu's label] Polyvinyl is just letting us do the record because it's
I so experimental. They probably wouldn't be able to sell many
I copies of it. They're really cool about it."
But perhaps his most interesting and ambitious undertaking
is the Kingfisher Bluez Single-Sided Singles Club, which launches
in September. "The Club is a look at Vancouver's d.i.y. indie rock
scene. There's twelve records, you get one every month for a year,
and we offer a free pickup for locals from Dandelion Records.
You pick up your singles for free from here or I'll mail them to
your house for twenty bucks. There's only 250 subscriptions
available, and there's a bonus single that you get if you subscribe
early. All the records are one sided." The bands involved with
the project are an impressive roster of local artists, including
Apollo Ghosts, Needles//Pins, Dirty Beaches, Capitol 6, Weed,
B-Lines, Korean Gut, Student Teacher, and several others.
"I feel like there's a lot of shitty popular bands making their
living as musicians or whatever, but a lot of the people who
aren't making their living as musicians - they're doing some
really cool stuff," Clapp explains. "This whole Vancouver d.i.y.
scene, it's a lot of house shows and shows in parks and on
beaches and all sorts of weird places, and when you start to
go out to shows like that I feel like you know people are really
accepting, and you're gonna hear stuff that's going to be way
better than you might hear than if you went to see a more popular band play at a venue or something. There's a lot of cool
music coming out of weird places."
With its slew of releases scheduled for the next year,
Kingfisher Bluez truly exemplifies a proactive approach to
Vancouver's sometimes frustrating dearth of support for independent, non-corporate music culture.
Subscribe to the Single-Sided Singles Club and keep current on all
Kingfisher Bluez bands at kingfisherbluez.com.
mi
DUNLEVYSNACKBAR NAM SHUB
by FRASER
DOBBS
photos by
KATAYOON YOUSEFBIGLOO
lettering by
MICHAEL SHANTZ
I'm sitting with Nam Shub—Bill Young (guitar/
vocals), Scotty Boe (synths), Caton Diab (bass),
and Matty Harris (drums)—in the alley outside Diab's house, drinking beer and learning
Cantonese from tiny bottle collectors. Between
squirrel sightings and chemtrail conspiracies,
the band chronicles their three-year history
leading up to last month's release of their first
album, Cascadia. "We went through a lot of different sounds early on," Young explains, "and
many of the songs on the record came together
over that time [two years ago]. We recorded
them in November of that year, so we've been
sitting on them for a while now."
One listen to Cascadia's dynamic opener
"Original Wizards" gives a pretty clear idea of
what Young means by "different sounds." A
chaotic blend of glitchy synths, sharp bass lines
and shoegazey, vibrating guitar leads come
together in a psychedelic mash that, at u minutes, is a spacey medley that borders on jam-
session. One might think that the long wait for
Nam Shub's debut is partly thanks to the vast
complexity of sound on each of its six tracks,
but according to the group, the reality was a lot
more logistical.
"We recorded the songs over two days, live,
in 2010. Once every two months we'd try to
have a mixing session," recants Diab, "but
some of it was a financial issue." The album's
saving grace came in the form of Chris
"WE COULD DROP A
SEVEN-INCH OF THE
MOST ABRASIVE NOISE
EVER, AND THEN AN
ALBUM OF STRAIGHT-UP
KRAUT[ROCK]," ADDS
HARRIS, "AND IT WOULD
STILL WORK IN THE CONTEXT OF THE BAND."
Cantrell, of File Under: Music, a local independent group that develops and supports
Vancouver artists. "He kicked our asses into
gear. He was starting his own label at the time,
and he wanted to use us as his guinea pig."
Fast-forward the release process, and Nam
Shub are excited to have something physical out
in the world. The group was adamant about putting Cascadia onto vinyl, and it's easy to tell that
the band is excited about seeing it in the stacks
at local record stores. But the boys are equally
excited to pave ahead as a constantly evolving
psychotic music machine.
"I visualize creativity as a room in a house,
and each creative project or album that I've
started working op is a new thing in that room,
a new piece of furniture. It's not until you finish
that thing that you have the space to start working on [somethingnew],"Youngsays.
"It's like having a yard-sale," Diab pitches in.
"Nam Shub is a yard-sale."
Despite the songs on Cascadia being two years old, the band insists that it's two years
fresh. "There's a whole bunch of potential trajectories for our sound," Young muses.
"We could drop a seven-inch of the most
abrasive noise ever, and then an album of
straight-up kraut[rock]," adds Harris, "and it
would still work in the context of the band."
Wind the clock back a few days before our
alley meeting, and I'm standing in Zoo Zhop
having my mind melted by the quartet's sonic-
bending skills. If you took a little bit of
My Bloody Valentine's Loveless, added a healthy
dose of Toronto's Holy fuck, and then threw
it into a woodchipper and smoked the result,
you might have something similar to what
was taking place in the tiny venue. Boe cues
up found sound, field recordings and synthesized speeches between and during songs
(despite his insistence that he's, "Just here to
turn knobs, man.") and the crowd can't quite
figure out whether they should close their eyes
and meditate or dance spastically next to one
another. On the trippy, beautiful "Orbit" if s
easy to understand why it might be hard to
choose, and according to Young, that's exactly
the way the band wants it
"Tapping into people's minds, in a subliminal sense, musically I find really interesting. Music is this beautiful space where you
can communicate with people, potentially, on a
deeper, non-conceptual level. It's not rooted in
the filters of language, so you can really affect
people in different and new ways."
Improvisation plays a big part in Nam
Shub's constantly-shifting soundscape, even if
the crowd doesn't always realize it "It's actually a point of contention within the band,"
Diab adds, "how long we get to jam [at shows]
and how long we have to play actual songs."
For most of the band's gigs, it seems like the
mix is 50/50.
For Music Waste in June, Nam Shub helped
celebrate the opening of the Nines, the new
multi-function gallery, for its inaugural aural
experience. Despite a heavy parking ticket, the
band enjoyed the new experience, particularly
since the musicians are all heavily involved in
the Red Gate Collective's ongoing attempts to
establish a new location.
"Any new venue is a good venue," says Harris,
but Boe seems to echo the sentiments of the
group when he says, "It was a funny venue for
us to be booked in. Three of the walls are glass,
and we're a loud band."
"The bands that played before us were about   \
a thousand decibel levels [quieter]," Diab adds.
"And the organizer tells us before our set 'That
was really nice. It was good what those bands
did, and we're looking forward to you guys. Just
keep it around the same leuel, okay?' It's a big problem because we're loud as spit We're constantly
turning up volume to match each other, so by
the end of [that] show we had the whole place
vibrating. We had each frequency meeting in
the middle to create some sort of drone, the
almighty 'ohm'." It's a happy byproduct that the
"ohm" is usually dance-friendly, too.
Nam Shub play September 5 at the Astoria with
Swansona and Ian William Craig. MUSICAL
THEATRE
by TRISTAN
KOSTER
illustration by
MICHAEL LEE
It's been a long season of festivals all over the
west. I've had friends make me jealous with the
awesome music that they got to see while some
of us work for a living. I finally get my chance
though with the Vancouver Fringe Fest, the international indie theatre festival.
Music and theatre often means a Broadway
musical, but Fringe offers something a bit different. A collaboration between the Van Fringe and
local promoter/indie guru/DJ Tristan Orchard
has led to the Fringe Bar, a new music offshoot
in the midst of the festival. This year, The Ruffled
Feathers are back for their second year, and over
the course of the ten days of concerts Bleating
Hearts, Hot Panda, DJ Glenn Alderson of Too High Crew
and more will all play the same stage, for free, in the middle of Railspur Alley on Granville Island.
Executive Director of the Fringe, David Jordan, admits
to a slightly selfish motivation for split identity of the
Vancouver Fringe—concerts are a good way to sell beer—
but he's also quick to point out that Vancouver is the last
stop on the cross-Canada Fringe tour and the companies
of travelling thespians use the opportunity for an unofficial cast party.
"I've been told, by outside sources," says Jordan, with a
notable pride, "that our [Fringe] has the best party." Party
or not, many of the bands playing were excited to get to
see the Fringe, and Orchard admitted that it was a big lure
of the gig as well as the outdoor venue.
When it came to why they wanted to work with
Orchard, Jordan cited his passion and eclectic taste,
which is especially tangible this year, with shows like
Keytar Warrior, a musical improv performance created by
Noah Ferguson, who is also one of the earliest acts that
Orchard promoted. Orchard and Jordan both curate a
stage that is accessible and diverse, with an element of theatricality, and most of all, "It's gotta be fun."
"It's really different than the shows that I normally pick
that are at clubs" says Orchard, "it gives me a chance to pick
bands that I like that are maybe a bit more mellow."
Music suitable to the space was also key, which is like a
courtyard about halfway down Railspur Alley on Granville
Island. The cafe opposite and most of the alley will be filled
with performers and audience. There was talk of moving the
Venue this year to accommodate everyone, which would have
been a shame, as the courtyard promises an intimate show
with this year's acts, plus trees, stars, and the Granville Street
Bridge overhead. Orchard himself will get in on the fun at
least twice, in a performance with his band of local indie poppers, BESTiE, on September 13, and capping off the festival
with his own DJ show on September 16. He says that the party
goers at the Fringe "really like to act out the songs," and that
it's one of the best DJing jobs he's had.
The Fringe is really the one time of the year that
Vancouver's micro-universes of music and theatre crossover
outside in a unique way. The classic musical is still the main
player, but they aren't necessarily meant for dancing.
Musically, the Fringe this year is better than ever. Ten
full days of free outdoor entertainment and 10 full days to
celebrate theatre is good for everyone. There's 750 regular
shows this year, plus the music acts, plus the Fringe Bar at
Railspur Alley.
No matter what, there are many reasons to be at the
Fringe this year and to stay late. And you'll probably leave
with lots to brag to your friends about.
The Vancouver Fringe Festival runs from September 6 to 16, with free
shows at the FringeBar happening every night. For more information and tickets, visit vancouverfringe.com and check out Tristan
Orchard's blog at winniecooper.net
Jtah
(H MMAl
DISCORDER
REVISITED
Animal Collective take a
trip to Pat's Pub
by LAUREL
BORROWMAN
In February 1983, Jennifer Fahmi and Mike Mines published the Jirst issue of Discorder. That means we are
nearly 30 years old. In the next jive issues, we'll tell tales
that harken back to the days of Discorder yore. Here's
onejrom 2003, as relevant now as it was men.
A sepia-toned photograph shows two men, aged
24 and 25, sitting in black metal folding chairs,
wielding acoustic guitars. One wears a red and
blue striped t-shirt and jeans, the other a green
and white tie-dyed number and faded, torn denim.
Their mouths are wide open in exaltation, belting
out silent lyrics. If the camera shot were wider,
lettering & illustration by
ALEXHEILBRON
one could place the two around a blazing
campfire; like camp counsellors strumming kumbaya to an enthralled youth group. But
the two'are surrounded by microphones, drums,
and cords. If there is an audience, the likelihood
of it being more than a dozen is slim, is is any of
them being under 19. Besides, back in 2003, how
many people could an Animal Collective show at
Pat's Pub on Hastings attract?
Take a picture with the same two men—David
Portner, a.k.a Avey Tare, now 33, and Noah Lennox,
a.k.a. Panda Bear, now34—in 2012 and a few things
would be different Trade the acoustic guitars for
electric ones; trade sitting for standing; pan out to
show thousands in the audience;; add sequencers, synthesizers, samplers, and percussion. And place
the other two members, Josh Dibb, a.k.a. Deaken,
and Brian Weitz, a.k.a. the Geologist on stage to
complete the quartet
The funny thing is that Animal Collective then,
even through a different lens, is not all that different from Animal Collective now—except for a
few million, fans, or so. So, what has happened
between August 2003, when Discorder was the first
magazine to feature the Baltimore-raised quartet
on the cover, and September 2012?
"That's a lot to. comment on," Weitz, now 34,
tells Discorder by phone from Florida beach, where
he's on vacation with his family before setting out
on a two month tour through North America and
Europe. "We were still working day jobs at that
point I don't think we could have ever imagined
it would turn into this."
And "this," is pretty big."
When Discorder's Marek Cooper spoke with
the group in August 2003 when they toured for
Here Comes The Indian, the group's fourth full-
length release, they were about to play a show
at Pat's Pub, where Portner and Lennox wailed
out a stripped down set with an acoustic guitar two mics each, and a few drums. Weitz split
time between hanging with some friends and
manning the merch table, and Josh Dibb, a.k.a
the Deaken, was "suspiciously absent."
Or maybe nojt so suspiciously. Over the
course of the four friends playing music
together—since high school—it was never a
plan or expectation for music to be a full time
job, and so not every album has included every
member. 2000's Spirit They've Gone, Spirit They've
Vanished, was recorded with Lennox and Portner; 2009's widely acclaimed Merriweather Post
Pavillion saw an absence of Deaken.
Since that show at Pat's, there isn't much time
for anything but the music. In those years, they
started as playing for "sometimes 50 or 60 people, sometimes maybe eight or nine, and now it's
sometimes eight or nine or ten thousand people,"
Weitz says of audiences at Coachella in southern
California, and Primavera Festival in Spain.
After eight studio albums, two live albums,
heaps of solo side projects, and an audio-visual
performance for the Guggenheim Museum's 50th
anniversary in 2010, all four have reunited for
Centipede Hz, including Dibb, after his hiatus from
the last album.
"{Dibb] was part of all those things and projects
♦••• Discordercover, August 2003,
photo by Hana Macdonald
during Merriweather. We were all doing a lot [of
other projects] at that time. He was involved,
just not as noticeably and physically, because
Merriweather was the most visible, physically, of
those projects."
The band's latest Centipede Hz, premiered on
Centipede Radio, an Internet collaboration with
The Creators Project, on August 19. Every Sunday
evening from July 29 to August 19, the band members each took a mm hosting an online broadcast
which included mixes with new solo tracks and
new songs from Centipede Hz, followed by mixes by
guests like Atlas Sound, long-time friends Black
Dice, and Haunted Graffiti. On August 29, Weitz
hosted the final the installation, starting the first
hour with what Weitz called their "inspirational
mix," a collection of songs that shaped Centipede
Hz for them. In the final hour, Weitz premiered
the album in its entirety.
In contrast to MPP's terrestriality, Centipede Hz
is a trip through space, and still Animal Collective
through-and-through. Part of its influence is from
something like a transmission from outer-space
that funnily enough, Cooper discussed even when
talking about the band for this show nearly 10
years ago. The nostalgia of AM/FM radio permeates one part, while a varied collection of music
influenced the other.
" [During Centipede Hz], we listened to a lot of old
psych music, electronic, a lot of [UK experimental
band] White Noise, [psych electronic band] Silver
Apples, cumbia. Not recent cumbia, but a lot of
Peruvian cumbia from the '60s, and reggae."
If the past nine years are any indicator, Animal
Collective will continue mind-bending, evolving
and creating as always, whether two, three, four,
or ten thousand or millions, are in on the music.
Both now, and another 10 years from now, Discorder
will be pleased as can be to keep saying, "We
were there."
Animal Collective do not play at Pat's Pub this month.
Catch them at the Malkin Bowl on September 10. ritfcftl
Mitten)
lettering by
ANNEEMBERUNE
photo by
JONATHAN DY
A Live Dungeons & Dragons
Comedy .Experience
CHRIS
Uy \J | | T\ IO A sure wave of the hand steadies the
OI \l A 1/ wobbly knees of your party behind you.
OI V/llA Guards scoff at your credentials, slob
ber on grilled cheese, and gesture you
further into the darkness. Your shoes make a sugary smacking sound
and you nearly tip over toe while stumbling to your seat; the editorial panache of your Dungeons & Dragons Player's Manual never had
anything to say about a dexterity modifier for having a beer in each
hand. Welcome to The Critical Hit Show's Live Dungeons & Dragons
Comedy Experience. If you were ever looking for somewhere to wear elf
ears and brandish a plastic sword in public, you might want to check
out the Rio Theater on the last Wednesday of every month; your
people are waiting for you. Since beginning in March, the show has
already amassed an enthusiastic following.
Castrating ores and kobolds in the creased recesses of a kingdom
from someone else's imagination won't be at the top of everyone's list
of plans for a Wednesday night, but the CHS is looking to change that.
The familiar trappings of everybody's favorite tabletop game are all
here: dice are rolled to resolve conflicts; off-brand soda is consumed;
and battles are fought for glory, blood, and Funyuns. CHS's stage is a
tabletop come to life and is overseen by Dungeon Master in-residence,
Eric Fell. When one of the actors, for instance, declares and mimes that
they're kicking down a door, Fell makes a couple of quick die rolls and
either loudly declares that it holds fast or that it bursts off its hinges
like a suckling pig being crushed by a washing machine.
The show is a spawn of Fell's imagination. A familiar face in
Vancouver's improv scene, he's assembled an impressive roster of
similarly schooled comics to join in the mayhem.
"Everybody I wanted for the show had to be a comic first and a
gamer second." says Fell. It's delightfully apparent when the cast
is less educated on the D&D universe than the audience. Points.of
hesitation surrounding D&D minutiae are expedited by a remedial outcry from the audience, and it's highly entertaining to watch
the cast fish for the best suggestion in the melee. Patrons will see
some familiar talent onstage. Joanna Gaskell's face is probably the
most recognizable as a fixture from the comedy web-series, Standard Action. Allen Morrison and Shaun Stewart hail from Vancouver
Theatresports. Lauren McGibbon is a popular standup comic, and
Ian Boothby is probably best known as a writer for the Simpsons and
Futurama comics.
Everything from surly innkeepers, to wisecracking kobolds, to an
entire civilization of dwarves with French accents are voiced by Fell.
Naturally, diplomacy often has a hazardous trajectory and when the
inevitable happens, audience members are brought onstage to play
the part of enemy combatants. Fisticuffs are resolved with a series of
dice-rolls punctuated by the audience shouting encouragement and
taunts at the cast
The high level of audience participation is noteworthy. Something
hollered from the audience has as equal an opportunity to become
comedic fodder as one of Boothby's savagely asphyxiating puns. Have
you ever known a dwarf who didn't work under-the-table?
The creative energy behind the show goes out of its way to find
unique ways to involve the audience. Once, to save McGibbon's thief
from being lost on the other side of a dimensional gateway, the audience
had to relay her "safe word"—banana loaf—in secretive whispers from
the back of the room. Another time, the head antagonist, "Jarrod," was
set to unleash mystical furor at the local tavern's pancake breakfast To
simulate this, a heap of balloons above was dumped on the gleeful audience below. It had happened to have been a particularly rainy evening
and a large number of audience members opened up their umbrellas
to shield themselves from the horror. It was unscripted, the crew rolled
with it, and it became a part of the show.
CHS strikes an enviable balance between improv comedy show and
polyhedron-chucking roots. Its smooth flow might be attributed to the
fact that as Fell says, "The D&D ruleset is essentially [one] for improv."
The kernels for both sprout from the same philosophy: to play along.
If it doesn't conflict with your own weekly D&D session, catch the Critical Hit
Show's Live Dungeons & Dragons Comedy Experience at the Rio Theatre
on the last Wednesday of the month. Visit criticalhitshow.com/or more details. K
dtlA irt
^P\ii'A>^
4
^
tJ
li 2>
1
«■£
<:
or
i
E
o
s
o
M
1
o "*
«   w   >
os a*
a. M
o o nz
III
CO
nge Festival
Granville Island (£
ystal Swells, Bro
d Weather Califo
vely Bad Things
the Astoria
CO
|
o
It
BO
Is *
6S°
Mil
ooua>
■il
et §"£
at
to fc
OS
cvi e>
is
>
m
CO
"g -Jg UJ
-
iZ®
s.
>£®
it ® £ bo S ®
£
®
ci
«S5®
felSS;
■Jf o £ B*T
as »lj iif
co <s> j
I'J
f I5§
► = <a J=«
«|Q£ £ SI ~ S
! S • Sfire CiTR 101.9 FM PROGRAM GUIDE
DISCORDER SUGGESTS LISTENING TO CiTR ONLINE AT WWW.CiTR.CA EVERY DAY.
SUN
MON
TUES
WED
THURS
FRI
SAT
CITR Ghost Ma
QfolmilK&tS
gam
^^^^«|4^S
■Bill
ParifePtcfcm'{Roots*
j-;.'cmtOMMint ..I
1   time
1HHHI
7
7
.   CiTR Ghost Mix
Friday Sunrise
(Eclectic)
8
Breakfast With The Brawns
(Eclectic)
Queer FM Vancouver:
Reloaded
(Talk)
SuburttsH Jungle
(Eclectic)
• JMof the World News
(Talk)
The Saturday Edge
(Roots)
■
9
Classical Chaos
(Classical)
Alternative Radio
9
10
Shooksiraokta (Talk)
Pop Drones
(Eclectic)
Student f
^^^Ns of the City
Hill
Sup World?
(Eclectic)
ift*msiot
. (Eelectic)
■111
11
Ska-Ts Scenic Drive
Relentlessly Awesome
Stereo Blues
(Blues/Eclectic)
11
Morning After Show
{Eclectic)
Student Special Hour
(Eclectic)
12
The Rockers Show
(Reggae)
Syncbronictry (Talk)
Dtascan's Donuts
(Eclectic)
It Ain't Easy Being Green
(Eclectic)
Generation
Annihilation (Punk)
m
1
Parts Unknown (Pop)
Inner Journey
(Folk/Experimental)
TenyProject    Democracy
Pcdcastfjalk)   Now (Talk)
We All Fall Down
(Punk)
Hugo
(Eclectic)
Student
Fill-in
Power Chord (Metal)
1
w
Give'Em the. Boot (World)
Extraenvironmentalist
(left)
;i>|ifets{ra1k)
Radio Zero (Dance)
■
3
Blood On     Shake A
Student Fill-in slot
Prof Talk
So Salacious
(Electro/Hip Hop)
Programming Training
Code Blue (Roots)
3
Radio Freethinker (Talk)
Thunderbird Eye
Nardwuar Presents
(Nardwuar)
4
(Roots)
(Soui/R&B)
The Rib (Eclectic)
Mantis Cabinet
(Eclectic)
(Eclectic)
11
Programming Training
5
Chips
(Pop)
Student
Fill-in Slot
News 101 (Talk)
The City
Arts Report (Talk)
Butta on the Bread
(Eclectic)
News 101 (Talk)
The Leo Ramirez Show
(World)
5
6
' "Student Fill-in Slot
Sore Throats, Clapping
Hands (Rogue Folk,
Indie S/S)
Flex Your Head
(Hardcore)
BSK*
"000%
Am You
flMMt tu
C   Stranded
(Eclectic)
Nasha Volna (World)
■
Sam-
squantch
(Eel)
■■■ Student
Fill-in Slot
(Eclectic)
tor if Jams
(Eclectic)
7
La Fiesta (World)
7
Exploding Head Movies
(Cinematic)
Stereoscopic Redoubt
(Experimental)
African Rhythms
(World)
Techno
Progressivo ,
Inside Out
(Oance)
Folk Oasis (Roots)
More Than Human
(Electronic/Experimental)
■
9
Bootlegs & B-Sides
(Dance/Electronic)
Crimes And Treasons
(Hip-hop)
Live From Thunderbird
Radio HefMUve)
The Bassment
(Dance/Electronic)
Synaptic Sandwich
. (Dance/Electronic/
Eclectic)
9
iA
Transcendance
""'''{Dancer'*"
The Jazz Show (Jazz)
Sexy In Van City (Talk)
10
IB
Radio Nezate
(Eritrian)
11
CabaRadio (Talk)
Hans Kloss Misery Hour
{NaasH^iiglf
Funk My Life'
(Soul/Dance)
Randophonic (Eclectic)
11
in
CiTR Ghost Mix
Canada Post-Rock (Rock)
Aural Tentacles
(Eclectic)
The Vampire's Ball
(Industrial)
12
\£
CiTR Ghost Mix
1
CiTR Ghost Mix
CiTR Ghost Mix
1
HI
3
The Absolute Value of
Insomnia (Generative)
HHHB
1
3
IB
5
CiTR Ghost Mix
5 CLASSICAL CHAOS
(Classical) 9-10am
From the Ancient World to the 21st
century, join host Marguerite in
exploring and celebrating classical
music from around the world.
SHOOKSHOOKTA
i7a//yi0am-12pm
A program targeted to Ethiopian
people that encourages education
and personal development.
THE ROCKERS SHOW
(Reggae) 12-3pm
Reggae inna all styles and
fashion.
BLOOD ON THE SAODLE
(Roots) 3-5pm
Alternating Sundays
Real cowshit-caught-in-yer-boots
country.
slttKEA^
fSou///?.Se;3-5pm
The finest in classic soul and
rhythm & blues from the late '50s
to the early 70s, including lesser
known artists, regional hits and
lost soul gems.
CHIPSTwiTHFeWRyThING
(Pop) 5-6pm
Alternating Sundays
British pop music from all decades.
International   pop  (Japanese,
French, Swedish, British, US, etc.),
'60s soundtracks and lounge.
fittirTiMSINDIA
(World) 8-9pm
Alternating Sundays
Featuring a wide range of music
from India, including popular
music from the 1930s to the present; Ghazals and Bhajans, Qaw-
walis, pop and regional language
numbers.
TECHNO PROGRESSIVO
(Dance) 8-9pm
Alternating Sundays
A mix of the latest house music,
tech-house,   prog-house   and
techno.
BOOTLEGS & B-SIDES
(Dance/Electronic) 9-10pm
TRANCENDANCE
(Dance) 10pm-12am
Hosted by DJ Smiley Mike and DJ
Caddyshack, Trancendance has
been broadcasting from Vancouver, B.C. since 2001. We favour
Psytrance, Hard Trance and Epic
Trance, but also play Acid Trance,
Deep Trance, Hard Dance and even
some Breakbeat. We also love a
good Classic Trance Anthem, especially if it's remixed. Current influences include Sander van Doom,
Gareth Emery, Nick Sentience,
Ovnimoon, Ace Ventura, Save the
Robot, Liquid Soul and Astrix. Older
., influences include Union Jack,
Carl Cox, Christopher Lawrence,
| Whoop! Records, Tidy Trax, Plati-
\ pus Records and Nukleuz. Email:
; djsmileymike@trancendance.net.
i Website: www.trancendance.net.
!f!W
BREAKFAST WITH THE BROWNS
(Eclectic) Z-ltem
Your   favourite    Brownsters,
James and Peter, offer a savoury
blend of the familiar and exotic
in a blend of aural delights.
breakfastwiththebrowns@hotmail.
com.
! SKA-T'S SCENIC DRIVE
\ (SAaJ llam-12pm
SYNCHRONiciTY
j <7aW12-l:00pm
I Join host Marie B and discuss spiri-
i tuality, health and feeling good.
\ Tune in and tap into good vibrations
\ that help you remember why you're
! here: to have fun!
I pliMuiwN
I (Pop) \-3om
\ An indie pop show since 1999, it's
\ like a marshmallow sandwich: soft
| and sweet and best enjoyed when
j poked with a stick and held close
I to a fire.
! THE RIB
(Eclectic) 4-5pm
| Explore the avant-garde world of
\ music with host Robyn Jacob on
| the Rib. From-new electronic, and
| experimental music to improvised
i jazz and new classical! So weird it
i will blow your mind!
[ NEWS iff ~~
| flaW5-6pm
; Vancouver's only live, volunteer-
\ produced, student and community
newscast. Every week, we take '
■ a look back at the week's local,
; national and international news,
as seen from a fully independent
! media perspective.
i SORETHROATS, CLAPPING HANDS
(Rogue Folk, Indie S/S) 6-7:30pm
Lyric Driven Campfire Inspired:
Playing Acoustic Punk, Anti-Folk,
I Alt-Country, etc. Tune in for live
i acts, ticket giveaways and interviews, but mostly it's just music.
Submit to: music@sorethroat-
sclappinghands.com. Find us on
Facebook!
EXPLODING HEAD MOVIES
(Cinematic) 7:30-9pm
Join gak as he explores music from
the movies, tunes from television
and any other cinematic source,
along with atmospheric pieces, cutting edge new tracks and strange
old goodies that could be used in
a soundtrack to be.
tWj3zThW "~
£/32zJ9pm-12am
Vancouver's  longest  running
prime-time jazz program. Hosted
by Gavin Walker. Features at 11pm.
September 3: One of the great
unsung voices of the baritone saxo- I
phone: Nick Brignola. "On a Differ- \
ent Level". September 10: Part one j
of The Jazz Show's annual education !
Feature. Maestro Leonard Bernstein \
and "What is Jazz". September 17: j
Part two of The Jazz Show's annual I
education Feature. Alto saxophone ;
great Julian "Cannonball Adderley \
Narrates: "An Introduction To Jazz". I
September 24: Musical alchemist I
Gil Evans and his orchestra with j
soloist Julian "Cannonball" Adder-
ley: "New Bottle, Old Wine".
(Rock) 12-l:00am
Formerly on CKXU, Canada Post- \
Rock now resides on the west coast !
but it's still committed to the best j
in post-rock, drone, ambient, j
experimental, noise and basically j
anything your host Pbone can put
the word "post" in front of.
PACIFIC PICKIN'
(Roots) S-%am
Bluegrass,   old-time   music,
and its derivatives with Arthur \
and the lovely Andrea Berman. j
pacificpickin@yahoo.com
QUEERFM
VANCOUVER:RELOADED
(Talk) 8:00-10:30am
Dedicated to the gay, lesbian,
bisexual and transexual commu- j
nities of Vancouver. Lots of human \
interest features, background on
current issues and great music, j
queerfmradio@gmail.com
suRmiui?
f£c/ecf7c;iO:30-ll:30am
Fuzzy and sweet, a total treat! Tune .
in to hear the latest and greatest :
tracks from independent and Van- !
couver bands.
MORNING AFTER SHOW
(Eclectic) ll:30am-lpm
An eclectic mix of Canadian indie j
with rock, experimental, world, reg-
gae, punk and ska from Canada)
Latin America and Europe. Hosted j
by Oswaldo Perez Cabrera.
INNHUblMljiP"
(Folk/Experimental) lpm-2pm
A source text for where sonicexperi- j
mentation meets the folk tradition.
Attention to d.i.y culture. http://
nohats.tumblr.com/     ,
GIVE 'EM THE BOOT
(World) 2-3pm
Sample the various flavours of
Italian folk music from north to j
south, traditional to modern on
this bilingual show, givetheboot®
gmail.com • http://giveemtheboot.
wordpress.com
Aiming to provide a space for fac- I SO SALACIOUS
ulty and doctoral level students to ,  (Electro/Hip Hop) 3-4pm
engage in dialogue and share their : Skadz and Sprocket Doyle bring you
current research.httpV/ubcproftalk. j Electro Swing, Alternative Hip Hop,
wordpress.com • proftalk@gmail. ! Dubstep, Acid Jazz, Trip Hop, Local
com I and Canadian Content-good and
IwloFnBmliiiaER 3jfi£	
(TaW3:30-4:30pm _ MANTIS CABINET
Promoting skepticism, critical \ (Eclectic) 4-5pm
thinking and science, we examine     arts rfport	
popular extraordinary claims and I  n...,, fi
subject them to critical analysis.      gZX.!!:._r™ 	
  ;  REEL TO REAL
a/MUm ]  ^W6-6:30pm
HtemaSve and critical look Z^^Z^
«+ „.., nh*r,„in„ m,k«„ „,„», Movie reviews and criticism,
at our changing urban spaces.      i 	
New website: www.thecityfm.org. DISCORDER RADIO
New twitter handle: ©thecityjm. j (Ta//rj 6-6:30pm
FipiYniiRHPin              "'•'" ! Alternating Wednesdays
SXsprn Discorder Magazine now has its
world. . and.more!. 	
ISSS^fS7  SAMSQUANTCH'S HIDEAWAY
//wLaL, ' miectic) MQ-oom
^^!L^^  l Alternating Wednesdays
CRIMES & TREASONS All-Canadian music with a focus
(Hip-hop)9-llpm on indie-rock/pop. anitabinder®
crimesandtreasons@gmail.com hotmail.com
CABARADIO FOLKOASis
(7a/Wllpm-12:30am (Roots) 8- 10pm
For the world of Cabaret. Tune in for Two hours of eclectic folk/roots
interviews, skits, musical guests music, with a big emphasis on our
and more. It's Radio with sass! local scene. C'mon in! A kumbaya-
free zone since 1997. folkoasis®
gmail.com
Sulliu^ i ^'!'V*?C,TY
(Eclectic) Z-ltom I JWlO-llP™
UvefromtheJungleRoom.joinradio You; "*«* dose °f Sucatl«n
■hostJa(*Velvettoanectecticmixof : and en ertainment in the realm
music,soundbites,informationand of relationships and sexuality.
inanity.dj@jackvelvet.net I sexyinvancrty.com/category/sexy-
 ;  j in-vancity-radio
POP DRONES
<fi*W10-ll:30am \ I^S I10SS'MISERYMUi
 . ,   (y/a/wAtossJllpm-lam
STUDENT SPECIAL HOUR Pretty much the best thing on
(Eclectic) 11:30-lpm ! radio.
Various members of the CiTR's
student executive sit in and host
this blend of music and banter
about campus and community
news, arts and pop culture. Drop
ins welcome!
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
PROF TALK
(Talk) 3-3-.30pm
Bringing UBC's professors on air to
talk about current/past events at
the local and International level.
TERRY PROJECT PODCAST
(Talk) 1-2 pm
Alternating Wednesdays
There once was a project named
Terry, That wanted to make people
wary, Of things going on In the world
that are wrong without making it all
seem too scary.
DEMbcRACYNOW
(7a/Wl-2pm
Alternating Wednesdays
EnRAENVIRO^MENM^
(Talk) 2-3pm
Exploring the mindset of an
outsider looking in on Earth.
Featuring interviews with leading
thinkers in the area of sustainable
economics and our global ecological crisis.
END OF THE WORLD NEWS
(raW 8-lOam
RELENTLESSLY AWESOME
llam-12pm
Vancouver's got a fever, and the only
prescription is CiTR's "Relentlessly
Awesome." Each and every week,
Jason attempts to offer adrenaline-
pumping, heart-stopping, hands-
over-the-eyes suspense. He is a fan
of various genres, and a supporter
of local music.
DUNCAN'S DONUTS
Eelect ic) 12- lpm
Sweet treats from the pop underground. Hosted by Duncan, sponsored by donuts. http://duncans
donuts.wordpress.com WE ALL FALL DOWN
(Punk) l-2pm
Punk rock, indie pop and whatever
else I deem worthy. Hosted by a
closet nerd, www.weallfalldown-
citr.blogspot.ca
INK STUDS
(Talk) 2-3pm
Underground and indie comix. Each
week, we interview a different cre-
atorto get their unique perspective
on comix and discuss their upcoming works.
THUNbERBiRD EYE
(Sports) 3-.30-4pm
Your weekly roundup of UBC Thunderbird sports action from on campus and off with your host Wilson
Wong.
MANTRA
(Eclectic) US pm
Kirtan, Mantra, Chanting and
Culture. There's no place like Om.
Hosted by Raghunath with special
guests. Email: mantraradioshow®
gmail.com. Website: mantraradio.
co. Genre: World.
ARE YOU AWARE
(Eclectic) Alternating Thursdays .
6-7:30pm
Celebrating the message behind
the music: Profiling music and
musicians that take the route of
positive action over apathy.
PEANUT BUTTER'N'JAMS
(Eclectic) Alternating Thursdays
6-7:30pm
Explore local music and food with
your hosts, Brenda and Jordie. You'll
hear interviews and reviews on eats
and tunes from your neighbourhood,
and a weekly pairing for your date
calendar.
AURAL TENTACLES
(Eclectic) 12-6am
It could be global, trance, spoken
word, rock, the unusual and the
weird, or it could be something
different. Hosted by DJ Pierre.
auraltentacles@hotmail.com
STEREOSCOPIC REDOUBT
(Experimental) 7:30-9pm
uvefrom™
radio hell
(Live Music) 9-11pm
Featuring live band(s) every week
performing in the CiTR Lounge.
Most are from Vancouver, but
sometimes bands from across
the country and around the world.
September 6: Movieland. September
20: Pleasure Cruise.
FRIDAY SUNRISE
(fcfecf/cj 7:30-9am
An eclectic mix of indie rock, hip-
hop and reggae to bring you up with
the sun.
ALTERNATJVE RADIO
(Ta//y9-10:00am
Hosted by David Barsamian.
BUTTA ON THE BREAD
(Eclectic) 5-6 pm
It's like mixing unicorn blood with
Christopher Walken's tears, and
then pouring it into your ears.
FUNK MY LIFE
(Soul/Dance) Itpm-llam
Grooving out tunes with a bit of soul
and a lot of funk, from the birth of
rhythm and blues to the golden age
of motown, to contemporary dance
remixes of classic soul hits.
SOUNDS OF THE CITY
(Eclectic) 10-11 am
Promoting upcoming live concerts
and shows in Vancouver, be they
local, national, or international
acts.
STEREOBLUES
(Blues/Eclectic) llam-12pm
Every Friday host Dorothy Neufeld
sinks into blues, garage and rock
n' roll goodies!
IT AIN'T EASY BEING GREEN
(Eclectic)12-lpm
CiTR has revived it's long-dormant
beginner's show It Ain't Easy Being
Green! With the support of experienced programmers, this show
offers fully-trained CiTR members,
Will
t WOULD LIKE:
□ an annual subscription
to Discorder magazine.
($20 for Canadians, $25
for US subscribers)
□ to support Discorder
magazine with a
donation of:
total:
Discorder is Vancouver's longest
running independent hiusic magazine.
Show your support for vancoil^^^g
independent music community and the
development of new writers, editors,
designers and artists. Sign-up to have
Discorder delivered to your door!
Fill-out this form and mail-in cash or a
cheque to:
Discorder Magazine
#233-6138 SUB Blvd.
Vancouver, B.C.
Canada, V6T 1Z1
especially students, the opportunity
to get their feet wet on the air.
HUGO
(Eclectic) l-2pm
Alternating Fridays
RADIO ZERO
f0a/?ceJ2-3:3Opm
An international mix of super-
fresh weekend party jams from
New Wave to foreign electro, baile,
Bollywood and whatever else.
www.radiozero.com
NARbwUAR
(Nardwuar) 3:30-5pm
Join Nardwuar the Human Serviette for Clam Chowder flavoured
entertainment. Doot doola doot
doo...doot doo! nardwuar®
nardwuar.com
NEWSIOI
(Talk) S-opm
See Monday for description.
STRANDED
f£c/etf/'c/6-7:30pm
Join your host Matthew for a weekly
mix of exciting sounds, past and
present, from his Australian homeland. And journey with him as he
features fresh tunes and explores
the alternative musical heritage
of Canada.
AFRICAN RHYHMS
(World)1':30-9pm
www.africanrhythmsradio.com
THEBASSMENT
(Dance/Electronic)^-lQ:3Qpm
The Bassment is Vancouver's only
bass-driven radio show, playing
Glitch, Dubstep, Drum and Bass,
Ghetto Funk, Crunk, Breaks and UK
Funky, while focusing on Canadian
talent and highlighting Vancouver
DJs, producers and the parties they
throw.
THE VAMpTrE'S BALL
(Industrial) 12-4am
Industrial, electro, noise, experimental and synth-based music.
fhevampiresball@gmail.com the-
vampiresballoncitr.com „
SATURDAY
THE SATURDAY EDGE
(7?/wfsJ8am-12pm
A personal guide to world and roots
music—with African, Latin and
European music in the first half,
followed by Celtic, blues, songwriters, Cajun and whatever else fits!
steveedge3@mac.com
GENERATIONANNiHILATioN
(Punk) 12-lpm
On the air since 2002,
playing old and new punk on
the non commercial side of the
spectrum. Hosts: Aaron Brown,
Jeff "The Foat" Kraft. Website:
www.generationannihilation.com.
Facebook: www.facebook.com/
generationannihilation".
POWER CHORD
(Metal) l-3pm
Vancouver's longest running metal
show. If you're into music that's
on the heavier/darker side of the
spectrum, then you'll like it. Sonic
assault provided by Geoff, Marcia
and Andy.
CODEBLUE
(Roots) 3-5pm
From backwoods delta low-down
slide to urban harp honks, blues
and blues roots with your hosts
Jim, Andy and Paul, codeblue®
buddy-system.org
THE LEO RAMIREZ SHOW
(World) Mom
The best of mix of Latin American
music, leoramirez@canada.com
NASHAVbLNA
(World) 6-7pm
News, arts, entertainment and
music for the Russian community,
local and abroad, nashavolna.ca
WFiESTA
(World)7-oom
Salsa, Bachata, Merengue, Latin
House and Reggaeton with your
host GspotDJ.
MORE THAN HUMAN
(Electronic/Experimental) 8-9pm
Strange and wonderful electronic
sounds from the past, present and
future with host Gareth Moses.
Music from parallel worlds.
SYNAPTIC SANDWICH
(Dance/Electronic) 9-11 pm
If you like everything from electro/
techno/trance/8-bit music/retro
'80s this is the show for you!
www.synapticsandwich.net
RANDOPHONIC
f£c/ecf/cJ llpm-lam
Randophonic is best thought of as
an intraversal jukebox programmed
by a vast alien living intelligence
system which has no concept of
genre, style, nation states or even
space-time relevance.
THE ABSOLUTE VALUE OF INSOMNIA
(Generative) 2am-6am
Peter Courtemanche. Music ever-
different and changing, created by
a system. A constantly evolving,
never repeating, mix. 100% local
and new. ART
PROJECT
MICHAEL
SHANTZ
Michael Shantz is an artist, illustrator, art director, and
clothing designer from Salmon Arm, B.C., but now works
worldwide alongside En Masse in Montreal, and live painting
with Dead Sea Mob in the UK. He also owns and runs two
clothing/lifestyle brands: Vampire Club in Brisbane, Australia
and Grimjob, right here in Vancouver. | spraypaint, acrylic,
ink, pizza boxes
20"x20"
2012
mttMt iiyp!    i
Mr
^'1
^^%.
P^^##'*§
BR
c^Pl SHANTZ November 22 -24
j Scotia Bank Dance Centre
1677 Davie St. ©Granville in Vancouver
i^5  \fi lOtfSiflf1^^
'W*     WlVlJliii^illltl^
nnwnrrhftstm r.nm
ebrating
iiw/35'
New Orchestra Workshop Society Great Canadian Musk
'STOUT AN0 £
H€> ABROAD I
STUDY • TRAVEL • WORK • VOLUNTEER
Saturday
September 22
lpm -5 pm
Vancouver Convention Centre
www.studyandgoabroad.com
~„«h«r*t*
Frankenstein: A Modern Myth (UK, 48 mm.i
Set to the pulsing strains of Iggy Pop and The Rolling Stones, Adam
Low's exhilarating documentary exalts the raw power of the first punk
novel: Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. Academics and artists (including
Danny Boyle and John Waters) remind us just how radical, confrontational and blasphemous this now-ckssic text was when first published.
GENEROUSLY SPONSORED BY       }{^p { #r\)~ r\
Cartoon College (USA, 78 min.)
This bittersweet, charming documentary introduces us to some of the
world's greatest graphic novelists, and the extraordinary college in
White River Junction, Vermont, where the comic artists df tomorrow
get inspired and get to work! Chris Ware, Lynda Barry, Art Spiegel-
man, Franchise Mouly and Scott McCIoud are among the many artists to take us into their imaginative inner lives and craft. The fabulous
soundtrack includes an original score by Jason Zumpano.
GENEROUSLY SPONSORED BY     \fCiTR
Regeneration Music Project
(USA, 82 min.)
Amir Bar-Ievs fascinating high-
profile project asks leading contemporary musicians and producers to
broaden their chops and play to a
different groove. Skriliex joins the
surviving members of the Doors; DJ
Premier conducts the Berklee Symphony OrchestraO) with Nas; the
Crystal Method backs R&B singer
Mardba Reeves; Pretty Lights play
with Dr. Ralph Stanley and LeAnn
Rimes; Mark Ronson joins Zigaboo
Modeliste! Music triumphs overall.
Griot (Senegal/USA/France/
Germany, 82 min.)
Senegalese kora and western
trumpet make fabulous music, together! Volker Goetze's enthralling
documentary melds dazzling visuals and haunting songs to serve up
a feast for the senses. Griot introduces us to Goetze's own soulful
trumpet styiings and the extraordinary voice: and calabash harp artistry of Ablaye Cissoko. We were
so impressed that we're bringing
them to town for a special live concert performance! UNDER REVIEW SEPTEMBER 2012
(Independent)
Black horn rimmed glasses, deadpan
expressions, and mastering the distinctive wallflower stance—the cover
photo ofVancouver's Jay Arner's latest single might have you thinking,
"I've seen this before." But don't be
fooled by the lackluster and Weezer-
esque record cover. Arner takes that
familiar geek-rock set up of synth,
four chords, and female vocal harmonies, and churns out two solid tracks
that prove keeping it simple results
in the catchiest of tunes.
Side A's "Bad Friend'' bursts
right into the verse, wasting no time
in delivering a head-banging beat.
The track has an addictive bopping
chorus destined for live sing-alongs
and where listeners can't help but
chant the song's terrific lyrical hook,
"I still can't shake the feeling." Short
and sweet, "Bad Friend" is the type of
song you can have on repeat without
getting sick of it
The following track, "Black
Horse," cools things down, opening with soft disco keyboard. Though
lacking the melodic punch of the first
track, "Black Horse" has a mellow
groove with echoing vocals that
dreamily croon, "Why do I waste my
time?" during the airy chorus. There's
ache and longing as the line repeats
and bleeds into the lingering end
synth chord.
Arner and his bandmates may not
be offering a new sound, but when it
comes to having a sudden urge for
some awkward dancing, comforting
music on a Friday night, or simply
any occasion that calls for classic and
straightforward indie rock-pop gems,
you'll know you can't go wrong with
spinning this record.
—Angela Yen
THE SUMNER BROTHERS
I'LL BE THERE TOMORROW
(Independent)
If you're as glum as I am about the
impending end of summer, this
is your go-to album. The Sumner
Brother's sophomore studio album,
I'll Be There Tomorrow, was produced
and recorded with Derek DiFilippo,
a close friend of the brothers, in a
log cabin situated in the mountains
of Merritt, B.C. According to Bob
Sumner, the spot is an "incredibly inspiring setting," the closest
neighbours living miles away. The
album launches with an angry bang
in "Toughest Man in Prison Camp,"
a messy melting bowl of the raspy,
cracking voice of Brian Sumner
and the hard hitting drums of Mike
Ardagh. After this rocky smash, the
album mellows down to a peaceful
prairie of old-country inspired folk
tunes.
This is where the band's influences are most evident The heavy
drums slow into soft, quick brushes
and the voice deepens with self-
indulgence. In short, this section
of the album sounds like Willie
Nelson and Woody Guthrie were
paired to play to an audience of
Great Depression-era wash-ups
and a group of devoted Strange
Boys fans.
"When You Dig My Grave"
comes in place near the end of the
album, and changes the dynamic
from country western gloom to
sloppy after-hours throwdown.
The album closes with two contrasting songs placed back to
back; 'That's Alright" encompasses
a jig-like, almost d.i.y. sound, and the
album finishes with a slow, minimal
but pretty, instrumental.
All in all, the Sumner Brothers
have put together an accomplished,
instrument-crammed album. You'll
find banjo, harmonica, pedal steel,
synths, clarinet, and pretty much
every other apparatus created to make
noise. Its neo-country/wreck-folk
sound will sluggishly serenade you
as you throw that beach towel in and
check back into reality of autumn.
—Josefa Cameron
ItU
(Kingfisher Bluez)
Take the playful tones of psych-pop,
drench them in fuzz and adolescent
frustration, Increase the tempo and
you've got Eeek!. Inspired by beach
bums and pop-punk, their latest
effort, Move Real Slow, weaves Colin
Spensley's ironically out of tune
guitar through seemingly capricious
tempo changes and lazy mumblings
that lead to iconoclastic chanting.
Clocking in at 18 minutes, Eeek!
have matured (just barely) from their
raucous infancy to come off with a
tighter, more cultivated sound. Move
Real Slow is loud, proud west coast
rock that draws barely decipherable
grumbles through cocksure bass lines
and infectious drumming to create
energetic sounds that could
never be denied a fist pump.
Advancing beyond the gritty
energy of their earlier EPs, the
local rockers have arrived at a
stylized accessibility steeped
in distorted surf tones and
garage-rock vitality. The interplay between meandering jams
and hoarse, affected vocals
on "A Will and Grace Period"
sees the carefree antics of their
earlier recordings replaced
with clean production and a tighter
sound, to create Eeekl's finest
pop-punk song yet Following in a
similar fashion, "Think About It"
illuminates the driving rhythm section, as drummer Devin O'Rourke
and bassist Rob Cameron allow
each other to stray just enough to
entice listeners before they seamlessly reconvene to support Spensley's frenetic chanting.
But as the heavier'effects begin
to wear off, the group's witty pop
tendencies turn to wholesome radical rambling as they proclaim the
virtues of agricultural sustainability
on "For Our Health." Amidst the
monstrous breakdowns and coarse
howls, fun loving sing-a-longs
meet laid back surf rhythms on the
quirky "Jurassic Parka," while the
hazy and cheerful reverb of "Tough
Guys" closes the album.
Move Real Slow is altogether a
relaxed, sometimes careless, companion to a boozy late night It's an
album best characterized as the outspoken wallflower, simultaneously
entertaining and insightful, yet never
needlessly complex. Most of all, itsees
the group confidently reach out and
explore new territory—a promising
step for these young (self-professed)
Cascadians.
—-Robert Catherall
MOTHER MOTHER
(Last Gang)
Go do the Pepsi Challenge with the
Mother Mother discography and
you're going to taste two distinctly different bands. Their debut record,
Touch Up, is a justifiably lauded alt-
folk masterpiece, and by the time
"Legs Away" starts playing, Mother
Mother has cemented themselves
as something other, and exciting.
It's perhaps not puzzling, like a
hippie trading rope sandals for
wing tips when baby makes three,
that they would trade that uncanny
quality for something more widely
palatable. Not puzzling, but a
shame nonetheless.
This might sound like lame nostalgia on the occasion of the latest
Mother Mother release, The Sticks,
but that nostalgia runs a hard path
through all of their subsequent
releases. I wouldn't even have new listeners go back to Touch Up to see what
the band could do with an acoustic
guitar, some stilted lyrics, and a three
part harmony. Ignorance is bliss, and
"O My Heart," et al are much more
enjoyable notknowingwhatwas, and
not wanting to shake the band by its
collective shoulders and ask them to
disregard Emily Haines and just be
themselves, dammit
But that's a flawed approach to
this album. The identity of a band
is rooted in the present and by that
principle, this Mother Mother is more
calculated and aerodynamic at the
expense of weird. "Let's Fall In Love"
is probably the most accurate thesis
statement on the record, a power pop
piece with no power. It's an earwig, to
be sure, and one sure to be hummed
through the year, but if s safe. And not
just seatbelt safe, but full racing harness safe. Waterwings safe. "Business
Man" and "Happy" continue the
trend, all but screaming the query:
Where did the energy go?
We know multi-album deals are
a wet blanket on creativity, but The
Sticks could stand to generate some
friction and heat On "Verbatim,"
frontman Ryan Guldemond has the
verve to call himself "the rooster in
the morning" and "the cock of the
day." The Sticks is a kind of bird too,
but it's more like a sleepy seagull at
night belly full of yesterday's scraps.
There's no offense here, but I doubt
that the critical clairvoyants could
have predicted a forgettable outing
from Mother Mother. Yet here we are,
ankle deep.
—Clinton Hallahan
(Suicide Squeeze)
Nil Sensae's second full-length
release, Sundouming, sees Andrea
Lukic (vocals/bass) and Daniel Pitout
(drums) joined by axeman Brody
McKnight, whose presence brings
numerous rewards for the group as a
creative unit heard over the album's
fourteen blistering tracks. The group
has retained their ferocity and pulse-
pounding punk energy, while gaining,
with McKnight the full realization of
their sound.
All the best elements of this new
lineup are crystallized early on in the
stellar "Swim," which sounds set to
be Nu Sensae's most buzz-worthy
tune. Atonal, jagged riffing assaults
the listener before Lukic and Pitout
barrel into the mix with jackham-
mer rhythms. Lukic's vicious howl
reminds one of Pretty on the Inside-era
Courtney Love for all the right reasons, seamlessly shifting between
animalistic snarling and a deadpan
talk-singing delivery.
Nii Sensae races through
Sundownina with breathtaking power
and abrasive anger. "Burnt Masks"
shows the group's strong sense of
dynamic range, slowing the tempo
momentarily before throwing the
listener back to the wolves. The rage
expressed particularly through Lukic's
vocals is almost an entity unto itself,
the intangible fourth member that
unites the group's musical focus.
That is not to say that Sundownina
is a one-sided affair, nor is the group
a one trick pony. Nii Sensae offer brief
moments of respite from their visceral
brand of punk. "Tea Swamp Park" is i
another highlight as its driving tribal j
drumming and chant-like vocals cap- ■
ture the listener in an enthralling yet \
brief hypnotic trance. It's psychedelic, \
but mired in the worst sort of vibes. I
Sundownina is a real witch's brew ;
of punk, grunge, and riot grrl influ- '
ences. It's a beast that foams at '
the mouth and only rarely eases its ;
unrelenting assault on the listener.
This latest release is a snapshot of ;
a young group at their most driven.
Despite the album's title, the sun is
shining for Nii Sensae. Many bright
days await this trio.
—James Olson
(Independent)
Don't let the title Zoloft you just j
yet The title of Shad's first release
since 2010's TSOL is an excuse for i
us to overuse nostalgic phrases, and
pushing down hard on the buttons of
our memories. The pay-what-you-can :
release has him spitting over samples j
made (in)famous by everyone's favor-  !
ite bygone pop tunes: from that over-  '.
enunciated Milli Vanilli interlude,
to that pitched down vocal on that j
Weezy song you used to love. With ;
no particular tonal distinction, Shad j
touches each expertly sampled track
with his throwback flow, with DJ T
LO scratching and cutting his way I
into nearly every track.
"A Milli VanilH" shifts between
samples, back to Shad quite drastically, maintaining perfect cadence
throughout until a too-good-to-
be-true interlude gives us a break.
Certainly Melancholy's hardest track,
the song includes some standout
stanzas, "No you're not pigs but the
profiling's hogwash." It's insightful
without being street-corner crazy.
This, along with grin-inducing introspection on "ItAin'tOver," highlights
the EP's commercial sensibility, which
doesn't feel at all deliberate.
Never feigning identity or donning personas, Shad's flow provokes
and persists over every beat
"New Don" and "Old Prince"
both clock in slightly under two
minutes, serving as the philosophical badge on Melancholy's
lapel. "New Don" puts Shad's*
social consciousness behind
the wheel, ("How to make a
rich man buy?/ Make him feel
poor"), while the rolling, eyes-
down vibe flowing through "Old
Prince" puts a ghoulish darkness on the release in the best
possible way.
Shad's consistency over this
array of beats doesn't necessarily feel
like a deliberate showcase, because
with a record this honest and this
nostalgic, there's no need to switch
your style. Melancholy doesn't care
whether or not you hate, or if the
money piles up. It cares about how
it feels to maintain a standard of quality while exhibiting a sense of history
that whatever your feelings toward
Milli or Vanilli, injects a certain swing
back into the step of some forgotten
memories.
How do you make a rich man buy?
Present him with a stellar EP and give
him the opportunity to support one of
2012's best hip hop releases.
—Chris Adams FREEMUSIC
ON THE PETER LEHMAliL'      lj$>
WINES STAGE AT
m&m.  _
THE ST. AMBROISE
Hpr   j&;
FRINGE BAR
B^T '
2012
-      VANCOUVER
ral'' 1' fujBJ
1 FESTIVAL
SEPT. 6-16       A
At AGRO Cafe:
1363 Railspur Alley
on Granville Island    MB
l->^fksday, Sept 6                     i
Wednesday Sept. 12
1  DJ Thomas Maxey           t
^unts and Uncles
=1
hf ot Panda
fcNripty, Sept. 7
1 * Jordan Klassen
rhursday Sept. 13
1 * The Ballantynes
BESTiE
1  DJ Jarrod Odell
fough Lovers
l
:riday. Sept 14
1   Saturday, Sept. 8
Keytar Warrkiftj&
1   Sambata
rheir There
1  One Human Race            ;
DJ Glenn Alderson
1   featuring Ezeadi
1  Onukwulu and Fiston      <
Saturday Sept. 15
3oyce Island
[b|j|t*day Sept. 9
Synthcake
1  Jay Arner
Timbrejacks (DJs)
1  Bleating Hearts
Sunday Sept. 16
1   Monday, Sept 10
0 J Tristan Orchard
1  Jasper Sloan Yip
I The Ruffled Feathers
48
1   Tuesday Sept. 11               &M
I Weekend Leisure
*  ^&& an$&MM
1  Karaoke
Plus over 750 live
l^l w 'mm   Ajm»
theatre performances
*&&« Asbbsbt
I Program Guides available at Blenz Coffee
1 locations or at vancouverfringe.com
Canada*    ™
1 Buy tickets online at:
VxUldUa    (jrajjvjjje
vancouverfringe.com
Island
jgpfttf©EPM
I (Fringe Box Office Powered by MacStatiort)
MacStation
iHAE-ssrrj^-wM  j|
2ND & LAST SATURDAY OF EVERY MONTH
OJUB 23 WEST 123 WEST CORDOVA
RSVP,   PARTY  INFO,   PHOTOS   &  VIDEOS
AT  SINCITYFETISHNIGHT.COM
f OONIE TUESMP
SEtTEMIER It i
BILTM«tp*T€ABAtE,|| THE WALDORF PRIDE PARTY
W/ BLOW PONY, LESLIE HALL
August 4-TheWaldorf
Every queer and their mother were
out this weekend at Pride. If you
have never been, picture sparJdy
sequins glistening on bedazzled
booties as people prance around
with unicorn horns, ready to strut
and twirl. For one weekend the
city is taken over by a sea of rainbow flags, and outrageousiy clad
folk donning everything from titty
tassles to mermaid costumes. This
year's 34th Annual Pride Festival
drew a crowd of 600,000 peopie to
celebrate sexual freedom.
The parade started off with
Jenna Talackova, a transgendered
beauty queen who challenged Donald Trump—and won—for her
right to compete in this year's Miss
Universe pageant, earning a warm
welcome from the crowd. Followed
by Dykes on Bikes, always a yearly
favourite, and Canucks player
Manny Malhotra, the West End
quickly became flooded with sass,
' class, and ass.
The highlight of my pride nightlife was seeing Leslie Hall at the
Waldorf. Not only did she bust out
onstage high-kicking in a golden one-
sie, but she went from doing dragon
impersonations to singing the song
"How We Go Out," with the lyrics
"Shake it if you wanna hear more /
Stomp once to hear Britney / Now
twice for Beyonce / Now three times
if you wanna hear me get nasty." Hall
then went on to dedicate a song to,
"a lady's rear end. The flat kind, good
for pancakes," and teased the crowd
with her overt sexuality, which left
me wanting to eat a giant stack of
asscakes. Blow Pony, a queer party
crew from Portland, laid down the
beats for the rest of the night with
everything from '80s punk, to glitz
electro, to ska, to g-rap. The crowd
was thick and sweaty, which made
it hard to get into the midst of the
action. The only thing that could have
hindered Blow Pony at Pride was their
popularity.
I look forward to Pride weekend
more than Christmas. This is partially because of the sunshine, but
also because of the way members
of a marginalized community come
together to celebrate one thing we
do all have in common: being queer.
During Pride, it seems like everyone
understands each other. Friends are
made in a heartbeat because people
are so happy to be out loud and
proud. That is not to say that there
aren't issues with Pride, such as the
immense corporate sponsorship,
especially in the parade, and some
romanticizing of queer experiences,
for example the positive message of
homosexuality and transgenderism
without discussion about the difficulties that come with it. Various members of the community, however, are
continually addressing these issues
by bringing more visibility to them
through focus groups, non-profit
groups, art and social circles. This
allows for a space to enact social
change while still having the time
of your life.
The amount of appreciation, activism, and support that pours out of
Pride weekend makes this glitterfest
one of my absolute favourites. I managed to exit with only one bite mark,
a handful of bruises, some flogging
wounds and permanent glitter that
will not wash away anytime soon.
—Nicola Storey
THE CHANTRELLES /
WHISKEY CHIEF
August 4 • The Biltmore
In this post-post-everything musical universe we find ourselves in, it's
always comforting to hear classic
sounds from talented bands without the help of a Macbook. Whiskey
Chief and the Chantrelles linked to
the past, where they respectively |
revived funkadelic '70s grooves and 1
mid-'6os rhythm and blues.
Vancouver'sWhiskeyChiefkicked ;
off the night with "Dyno Egg," a dirty i
little funk fest with greasy horns and j
Stevie Wonder keys, before floating
away in a spacey Floydian breakdown.
They easily drew the biggest crowd of
the night, not in terms of numbers,
but the sheer size of the dudes dancing up a storm in front of the stage.
This high energy group had amazing
stage presence for a band with no
front man, or vocals. Members broke
the fourth wall, jumping into the
crowd to share a dance, while bassist
Dave Wise rode through the crowd on
the burly shoulders of Dreadnoughts
bassist Andrew Hay.
Victoria's eight-piece Motown
machine the Chantrelles, on the
other hand, had soul siren Chance
Iovett leading the proceedings, with
the audience eating up slow-cooked
Memphis grit from the palm of her
hand from the first song to the last
Lovett has grace, poise, and powerful pipes, and her well-dressed backing band is sympathetic to her every
whim, bending and swinging the
music to the funky beat
However, this soul show was
almost a no show. Earlier in the day,
the band's van broke down in Hope,
after three-and-a-half weeks on a
Cross Canada tour to Montreal and
back. They had to cab into Vancouver
while BCAA saved the day, towing the
van to the Biltmore.
The Chantrelles didn't let this
minor setback get them down, as they '
plowed through a set of retro soul
tunes that would have sounded right at home in Muscle Shoals Studios
between sessions by Wilson Pickett
and Aretha Franklin.
"Ain't Nobody Home" was driven
by a rippling clean guitar tone, punctuated by the occasional Who-style
crunch and killer back-up vocals
and harmonies. A call and response
breakdown drove most of the already
enthusiastic audience into a frenzy.
But the band also knew when to
slow things down, like on "Ooh Me."
This show-stopper has all the makings of a classic slow jam for a '6os
school gym dance.
The Chantrelles revived soul
music. The band is true to the groove
laid down by Stax house band Booker
T. and the MGs and the interplay of
trumpet and sax are the Cool Whip on
their soul food for the ears.
The Chantrelles are not as forward thinking as Janelle Monae and
not as focused on the past as Sharon
Jones and the Dap Kings, but luckily,
that leaves them stuck in the present
with us.
—Brent Mattson
SELKIES / HAIKU CHARLIE
Aug vj • The Orchard House
There's something about East Van
house shows and summer nights.
That feeling you get when the sun
slowly disappears over the length of a
living room set is a pretty intoxicating
experience. The Orchard house, and
its tiny living room in East Van, played
host to a combination farewell party
and record release show.
Haiku Charlie have grown
immensely since I saw them last
which, at three years ago, is understandable. Local folk/pop orchestra-
tor Carly Ramsey has an ensemble
cast of musicians including Selina
Crammond (drums) and Jessica
Wilkin (keys, flute, melodica) and
particularly in the case of bassist
Caitlin Gilroy, their combined talents help Haiku Charlie immensely.
Songs with not-quite-loud-enough
lyrics threatened to be too sweet to
handle with soft vocals, flutes, and
melodica harmonies, but were played
just slow enough to breathe fresh life
into the shy indie-pop melodies.
Selkies, Vancouverites Juliann
Nelson (guitar) and Jessica
Wilkin (bansuri flute) played
warm, ethereal siren songs.
Each quiet soliloquy felt like
it was inviting the audience to
shipwreck on golden fields, and
it was hard to ditch the image
of dangerous beauty as Selkies'
set felt designed to tug at the
heart-strings. Wilkin's flute
added rich harmony to otherwise
sparse folk instrumentation,
even though it seemed at times
to be added almost improvisa-
tionally into the songs. Selkies
were saying goodbye to Wilkin,
who was moving to Toronto, and
so it was with more than a little
melancholy that Nelson played
for encore a song she had been
practicing by herself. Seeing
Wilkin on the sidelines watching Selkies transform into a solo
performance was heartbreaking
and natural at the same time.
—Fraser Dobbs
Home of
gaifeoiwerf
Music Oirectories
BANDS MUSICIANS RESOURCES
COMMUNITY
DRIVEN
MUSIC
IISTINGS PRSHYS I COLUMNS
: ilillEIlK 1 COMICS I MY
THE BEST 0 INDEPENDENT
ARTS a CULTURE
DELIVERED TO YOU I     Y
j OCTOBER 27 - VOGOE THEATRE
DOORS 7PM - Alt. AGES WELCOME (212) Productions
BigMama Textbooks
1100-1200 West 73 Ave
The Fall Tattooing
People's Co-op
Temple of the
454 VV Cordova St.
644 Seymour St.
10% off
Bookstore
Modern Girl
25% off
10% off
1391 Commercial Dr.
2695 Main St.
10% off
15% off vintage, 20%
Antisocial
The Bike Kitchen
Fortune Sound Ciub
off new
Skateboard Shop
6138 SUB Blvd.
147 East Pender St.
Perch Cafe
2337 Main St.
10% off new parts and
No cover Saturdays (excluding special events)
337 East Hastings
UBC Bookstore
15% off clothing
accessories
10% off
6200 University Blvd.
10% off everything else
10% off clothing, gifts,
Bonerattie Music
Fresh is Best Salsa
Project Space
stationery
Australian Boot Co
2012 Commercial Dr.
2972 W Broadway
222 E Georgia St.
1968 West 4th Ave
10% off
10% off
10% off
Vancouver Music
$30 off Blundstones and
Gallery
RM Williams
The Cove
Highlife Records
1317 Commrecial Dr.
Prussin Music
118 Hanes Ave, North Van
3681 West 4th Ave.
3607 W Broadway
12% off
Audiopile
2016 Commercial Dr.
10% off food
10% off
10% off
Vinyl Records
10%offLPs/CDs
Dentry's Pub
Hitz Boutique
Red Cat Records
319 W Hastings St.
4450 West 10th Ave.
316 W Cordova St.
4332 Main St.
15% off
BadBird Media
10% off regular priced
15% off regular priced
10% off
www.badbirdmedia.com
items
clothing and shoes
The Wallflower
10% off
The Regional
Assembly of Text
Modem Diner
Devil May Wear
Limelight Video
2505 Alma St.
2420 Main St.
Band Merch Canada
3957 Main St.
3934 Main St.
10% off
www.bandmerch.ca
10% off
10% off
1 free make-your~own but
20% off
ton with purchases over $5
Woo Vintage        \.
Displace Hashery
Lucky's Comics
3972 Main St.
Clothing
Bang-On T-Shirts
3293 West 4th Ave.
R/X Comics
4393 Main St.
Robson, Cherrybomb,
15%
10% off
2418 Main St.
10% off
Metrotown locations
12% off
10% off
Dream Apparel +
Articles for People
311 W Cordova St.
Neptoon Records
3561 Main Street
Zoo Zhop
Rufus' Guitar Shop
223 Main St.
Banyen Books
3608 W 4th Ave.
10% off used, $1 off new
2621 Alma St.
10% off used
10% off
10% off everything but
10% off
Dunlevy Snack Bar
Pacific
Cinematheque
1131 Howe St.
instruments and amps
Beatstreet Records
433 Dunlevy Ave
Scratch Records
439 W Hastings St.
10% off
1 free small bag of pop
shows at Interurban
10% off used vinyl
The Eatery
3431 W Broadway
10% off
corn per person/zisft
Art Galery
1 East Hastings
20% entry discount
I Friends of CITR Card
scores you sweet deals at
Vancouver's finest small
merchants and supports
CiTR Radio 101.9 FM.
citr.ca AMS EVENTS PRESENTS:
xMee
While the new Student Union Building (SUB) is being built we're
going to keep bringing you the all the great AMS restaurants,
shops and services you've come to expect -
all still housed in the Old SUB! ' 1 • Io8bi*FI
*213     I#iiiss
siigi
sSEeaSSo ion
Shake A Tail Feather
with DJ V
intra, interview
and photo
by CHIRAG
MAHAJAN
lettering by
MICHAEL LEE
Sunday is a smooth day for soul music;
a day to reflect on what has passed,
and to dream about what lies ahead.
If you've had the pleasure of tuning
in to Shake A Tail Feather on Sundays,
you'd know DJ V has followed radio
veteran George Barrett's merry reggae
vibes with all things soulful—from the
golden years to today's local scene. On
the air since September 2006, and on
alternate Sundays since January 2011,
DJ V, aka Vanessa Tara, knows that a splash of
soul and a dash of funk are all you need to get up
and shake your tail feather. DJ V reminds me that
the show's name is inspired by the 1963 tune by
the Five Du-Tones, and to see one of the grooviest
covers of that classic, look for a clip ofRay Charles
in the 1980 cult classic, The Blues Brothers.
Discorder: What music did you grow up listening to?
DJ V: I was born in 1970, so I grew up with a lot of
soul and early rock 'n' roll. My mother was a huge
soul fan, and I guess the music she played must
have just come out. This included Barry White,
The O'Jays, Curtis Mayfield, Marvin Gaye, Diana
Ross, and many others, so there certainly was a
lot of soul around the house.
What made you start Shake A Tail Feather?
In a previous life, I was doing radio at CKUT [at
McGill University, Montreal]. That was 20 years
ago. I was volunteering in their production department. I then took over a literary program on CKUT,
and I hosted that for a summer. I went around to
local cafSs to record various poetry and fiction
readings on tape. I then had the tech person mix
it, with me doing the announcing in between. It
was neat!
Do you collaborate with local radio hosts?   < -■,
I've done that here at CiTR. David Love Jones from
African Rhythms was on the show, particularly in my
first couple of years. I've also had Gavin Walker on
from The Jazz Show, because classic soul and jazz
often overlap. Guest host GAK from Exploding Head
Movies has played blaxploitation film soundtracks.
Darren (Gawle) from Stereoscopic Redoubt, which
was a psychedelic music show when he started
it, was on and we played psychedelic soul, like
Funkadelic, The Chambers Brothers, and Sly &
the Family Stone.
What is Rainbow 24?
Rainbow 24 was a project put together as a special
24-hours of programming. QUEER FM, which was
hosted by DJ Aedan Saint and company, decided to
put this together as he was leaving. Aedan invited
me to do an hour of LGBTQmusic on Rainbow 24.
There are soul artists who identify that way, but if
you go back to the 1960s or '70s, the artists weren't
necessarily out For example, Toronto-based Jackie
Shane was openly gay, but didn't actually say so
in public. But he had makeup on with a bouffant
hairdo, or wore adressora feminine-looking suit.
He peppered his stage with songs about women
but they actually weren't. Other examples include
Little Richard, Big Mama Thornton, Laura Nyro,
and Billy Preston.
What has been your most memorable on-air
moment?
Coming out on the air last October was a major one.
I didn't expect it to be that big a deal but it brought
a lump to my throat. I started that show like a
regular one, played
great music, and I told
our listeners that I had
an announcement at
the end of the show. A
couple of hours later, it
was quite moving. My friends who were listening
called me and congratulated me. I was DJ V from
that point on.
If you could relive a year in the history of soul
music, which would you pick?
Probably 1967. It was a huge year for soul. Musically speaking you can't beat that. You had soul,
Motown, Stax, southern soul, blue-eyed soul,
boogaloo (a fusion of soul/R&B with Latin American music), ska turning into rocksteady in Jamaica,
and the rise of northern soul in Britain.
If you could only play one album to shake your
tail feather, which one would it be?
Wow, it's such a big genre! I would have to say
In The Midnight Hour by Wilson Pickett. Another
one would be James Broum At The Organ: Handjul Of
Soul. A lot of people don't know this but he used
to play the Hammond B-3 organ very well!
What is your favourite CiTR radio show, besides .
your own?
It used to be Sweet And Hot (with Charles Burn-
ham), which was a fantastic 1920s, '30s, and '40s
show. It's not on anymore, but it gets an honorable mention. I'd have to say The Jazz Show with
Gavin Walker.
This month marks the show's sixth anniversary. What does the future hold for Shake A Tail
Feather?
Originally, I thought I probably had enough ideas
for six months. And now, it's been six years! I take
every show individually, and I enjoy each one.
Each show has its own focus: the songs could be
from the same year or they have the same theme,
so there's always something going on. As long as
that continues to happen, I will continue doing it.
But I'm more concerned about how long the music
lasts, so I'm really interested in mentoring somebody. I'm a UBC alumna so I'm more than happy to
mentor students who want to get in to radio, who
like and respect the music, and who simply love to
learn, because then the listeners benefit.
Shake A Tail Feather airs alternate Sundays, jrom
3pm to 6pm. CiTR 101.9 FM CHARTS
STRICTLY THE DOPEST HITZ OF AUGUST
 #_
 ARTIST
ALBUM
LABEL
#
ARTIST
ALBUM
 LABEL	
SWi
Purity Ring*
■Shrines
Last Gang
26
Selkies*+
Tall Grass
Self-Released
WM
White Poppy*+
1 Had a Dream
Not Not Fun
27
Robin And Linda
Williams
These Old Dark Hills
Red House
3
Apollo Ghosts*+
Landmark
You've Changed
28
Jon and Roy*
Let It Go
Warner (WEA)
Up
Metric*
Synthetica
Metric Music
International
29
The Fundamentals*
Get Alright •
Stomp
5
Chains of Love*+
Strange Grey Days
Dine Alone
30
A Place To Bury
Strangers
Worship
Dead Oceans
5
Capitol 6*+
Pretty Lost
Light Organ
31
Frank Ocean
Channel Orange
Def Jam
jjjSJJ
The Be Good
Tanyas*+
A Collection
Nettwerk
32
Grimes*
Visions
Arbutus
8
Jay Arner*+
Bad Friend b/w
Black Horse
Self-Released
33
Hot Panda*+
Go Outside
Mint
9
Dirty Projectors
Swing Lo Magellan
Domino
34
Japandroids*+
Celebration Rock
Polyvinyl
10
Humans*+
Traps
Hybridity
35
Lower Dens
Nootropics
Ribbon
fepij
Peaking Lights
Lucifer
Mexican Summer
36
Nam Shub*+
Cascadia
Self-Released
12
The Tallest Man
On Earth
There's No Leaving
Now
Dead Oceans
37
Nihiti*+
For Ostland
Lo Bit Landscapes
13
Brasstronaut*+
Mean Sun
Unfamiliar
38
V. Vecker
Ensemble*+
In the Tower
Self-Released
14
Cookie Duster*
When Flying Was Easy
Draper St.
39
Jody Glenham*+
Gypsy Babe
Self-Released
15
Hot Chip
In Our Heads
Domino
40
Cold Specks
1 Predict A Graceful
Expulsion
Arts & Crafts
16
White Lung*+
Sorry
Deranged
41
Green Tree*+
Back When They
Were Good
Self-Released
17
Twin River*+
Rough Gold
Light Organ
42
Hermetic*+
Civilized City
Self-Released
18
Beach House
Bloom
Sub Pop
43
Liars
WIXIW
Mute
19
Pizza Sub*+
Pizza Sub
Self-Released
44
Los Furios*+
Never Look Back
Self-Released
20
Bend Sinister*
Small Fame
File Under: Music
(FU:M)
45
Matisyahu
Spark Seeker
JDub
21
Dark Orchard*
Dark Orchard
Self-Released
46
Nii Sensae*+
Sundowning
Suicide Squeeze
22
No Sinner*+
Boo Hoo Hoo
First Love
47
Panther &
The Supafly*+
Blood & Joy
Self-Released
23
CFCF*
Exercises
Paper Bag
48
Les Momies De
Palerme*
Brulez ce coeur
Constellation
24
Dead Can Dance
Anastasis
Pias
49
From Birch to Yew*+
Whisper in the Trees
Self-Released
25
Echo Lake
Wild Peace
Slumberland
50
Cold Warps*
Slimer b/w
Dream Creepin"
Fundog
CiTR's charts reflect what's been played on the air by CiTR's lovely DJs last month. Records with asterisks (*) are Canadian and those marked (+) are local.
Most of these excellent albums can be found at fine independent music stores across Vancouver. If you can't find them, give CiTR's music coordinator a shout
at (604) 822-8733. Her name is Sarah Cordingley. If you ask nicely she'll tell you how to find them. Check out other great campus/community radio charts at
www.earshot-online.com. ilSSENTIAL libRM R^BifS
CALEXICO
A   L   6   t   E   R   S
j^BlBCr*1*^^. ™r' ISM
CALEXICO
Algiers CD/LP
DIVINE FITS GRIZZLY BEAR
A Thing Called Divine Fits CD/LP     ^^rtetds^eD/fcP—
_^
SWAJjg.':^
TheSewCD/LP^
THE FRESH ANJ^ONLYS^
Long Slaw Dance
— £TARS
North CD/LP
And much moreinJffiC■super
fttn store.,. Vintag^Amps^
Turntables, Speakers^Iicke^
Mags etc... o^psitarounA
ST. VINCENT & DAVID B¥RNE    riftf! tltlfe SllHHit- IrQCk SlU jXS^fjL.
Love This Giant CD/LP allU l«        ^g|3j
facebook
twitter.com/zulurecords
facebook.com/people/
ZuluRecords-Store/680210042
tumbli;  zulurecords.tumblr.com
Zulu Records
1972-1976 W 4th Ave
STORE HOURS
MontoWed   10:30-7:00
Vancouver, BC
Thurs and Fri 10:30-9:00
tel 604.738.3232
Sat              9:30-6:30
www.zulurecords.com
Sun            12:00-6:00