 &%»%%»%%%»>Vl«Qi^
ggflL
OCr*^j
:»
H5f?
HWHwccwmHronwErw
w&h&
^IET,<|CH    ^C QUJ;  W«B
cMASre^!!^?
WAR*
S^ltK
'- •..;     '•... "•     /    •     ;.;
86 ST. MUSIC HALL
SUNDAY FEB. 7
Tickets: VTC/CBO & all usual outlets as well as
Zulu & track Records. Charge by Phone 280-4444.
Also available at the door.
PRODUCED BY PERRYSCOPE disorder
That Magazine from CITR Radio 102
February 1988 • Vol. V Issue #61
EDITOR
BUI Mullan
WRITERS
Anthony Roberts, Esther Hadley,
Denlse Richard, Kevin Smith, Rob Slmms,
Janis McKenzie
ART DIRECTOR
Matt Richards
ILLUSTRATORS
William Thompson, Marty George,
Julia Schenck
PHOTOS
Bill Jans, A. Nuther
PRODUCTION MANAGER
Mike Grigg
LAYOUT
Mlwako, Danuta Debowskl, Johanna Block,
Jukla Schenck, Marty George,
Mike Kernaghan
PROGRAM GUIDE
Louise Jantzen
TYPESETTING
Sheila Haldane, Chris Buchannen, Danuta
Debowskl, Alex Johnson, Peter Lankester,
ACCOUNTS MANAGER
Randy Iwata
ADVERTISING MANAGER
Lucy Crowther
DISTRIBUTION
David Newell
PUBLISHER
Harry Hertscheg
Discorder Magazine, c/o CITR - UBC Radio
6138 SUB Blvd., Vancouver, B.C. Canada
V6T 2A5 S(604) 228-3017
Discorder is That Magazine from CiTR Radio
102 and is published monthly by the Student Radio
Society of the University of British Columbia, although it winds up being printed deep from within
Surrey, Canada.
Discorder Magazine prints what it wants to, but
pledges to put the CITR On The Dial program schedule and SpinList record chart in every issue. Discorder also vows to circulate 17,500 copies by the
first of each month. Subscriptions are encouraged.
Twelve issues: $12 in Canada, $12(US) in the
States, $18 elsewhere. Make money orders or
certified cheques payable to CITR Publications'.
CITR Radio 102 broadcasts a 49-watt stereo signal throughout the Vancouver area at 101.9 FM.,
But for best reception, hook up to the FM cable network. CITR is at 101.9 cable FM on Rogers (Lower
Mainland) and Shaw (North Shore) cable systems,
but is still at 100.1 on Rogers (Fraser Valley).
Inquiries about CITR, Discorder or the Mobile
Sound System can be directed to station manager
Harry Hertscheg at 228-3017, between 10 am - 4
pm, Monday to Friday. If you want to talk to the
deejay, call 228-2487 or 228-CITR.
fife
IN THIS ISSUE
FEBRUARY 1988 AIRHEAD
c/o CITR
6138 SUB Blvd.
Vancouver, B.C.
V6T2A5
together, the vibe was better, stronger, purer seven
years ago in the Commodore when it was just 1000
(and U2 were not a better band then). Face it, for three
quarters of the BC Place crowd, they could easily have
been a bunch of actors doing a Beatlemania-style
tribute. So who s to blame? U2? They're just trying
to satisfy the overwhelming demand and not spend the
rest of their lives on tour. How about the rock'n'roll biz
in general? How is it that one band gets so HUGE? I
mean, U2 are good, but not that good. Personally, I put
them in the same general category as The Waterboys
who probably couldn't even sell out the Commodore.
For what it's worth, I liked Prince's movie better.
Nobody elbowed me in the head, nobody shouted at me
with a megaphone, I didn t need a special plastic wrist
band to get in, and it cost something like one-tenth as
much for better sound and a front row seat. (Bill
Mullan)
NAIVETE IS BLISS
**e fou zesis
I DISAGREE!
Airhead,
This is like ancient history by now, but I
wonder where Bill Mullan gets off writing about the
U2 concert in your year-end wrap-up: "Don't believe
the deluded ravings of those who fought so hard,
believed so fervently, paid so much that it had to be the
concert of the year. More like the scam of the year.
Certainly the disappointment." In his view. Personally, I didn't fight very hard (was sitting around by a
radio when I heard they put the extra 5000 tickets on
sale a few days before the show), didn't believe so
fervently (I'd seen them twice before and knew they
were real breathing fallible human beings), and didn't
pay so much (only the price of a couple of club gigs)
In fact, I went with no particular expectations, found a
pretty decent place on the floor, and had a great time.
In fact, totally subjectively, I'd put it in my all-time
Top Five, and definitely the concert of the year.
Though I didn't check out many of those thrash bands
that you guys are constantly genuflecting before.
And no, I wasn't stoned. Well, maybe a little smoke,
but not until far enough into the set that I knew I was
enjoying myself without it.
As for the venue ... the sound is a bit of a
drag, but it was fun to be in the presence of 57,000
going ape, even if they were mostly "deluded ravers".
And if they'd played the Coliseum, they wouldn't have
been able to cram 5000 more people in at the last
minute, and I would have missed out.
Love the magazine by the way.
J.N.
Don't get me wrong. I very much like U2 's music, and
not just 'the old stuff. I'd go so far as to say "Joshua
Tree" is one of my two or three favorite albums ofl 987.
The problem lies with their overwhelming popularity.
They're too big not just for their own good, but for
everyone's. Having also seen them twice before in
smaller venues, I can vouch for the extraordinary kind
of magic they can sustain in a live situation. In BC
Place, I caught glimpses of it but overall, sorry, I had
to shake my head and say, no way! Say what you want
about 57,000 people (the city ofKamloops) going ape
4 DISCORDER
Airhead,
If I asked you,
Would you die to save the world,
When the world includes those you love,
And you said you would,
So I think to myself,
The same must hold true for Mikhail and
Ron,
Certainly they too could not destroy,
Everyone they've loved, and everything
they've done,
But then I realize,
In the midst of my fit of naivety,
That they can both go undergound,
And stay alive anyway.
Behavahinskl
OR IS IT ANOTHER RED HERRING?
Dear Airhead,
What is all this nonsense about "Where is
Wombat?"   I've been reading Discorder faithfully
since the end of the war and I've never seen any
reference to any Wombat or, for that matter, any other   Airhead,
example of Australian wildlife.   Is this another of
those bogus publicity campaigns designed to increase
circulation by making readers nostalgic for something
that never existed in the first place? Come on. What
kind of naive sheep-like peons do you take us for? I'll
bet you even write your own letters. Now knock it off
or I'll tell your father. Get serious and start uncovering some real mysteries, like who really killed Janet
Smith?
Was it the Chinese houseboy, like the police said, orwas it the wife of the son of the Lieutenant-
Governor who found them in bed together at the
infamous wild party at the home of the Red Baron's
30th victim, and bashed her in the head with a chamberpot and then took her down into the laundry room
and put a bullet into her already dead head to make it
look like a gun cleaning accident, like everyone else
said? Or did she really just shoot herself like the
brother of the Red Baron's 30th victim, who was
living in the house at the time and who threw the infamous wild party that he said never happened because he was so tired from playing tennis that afternoon that he went to bed early that night and no one
came over so there really couldn't have been a party,
could there? And besides, all the people who were
supposed to be there all said they were out of town that
weekend. So, if all that was true, why did the Attorney-General pay the detectives to keep the Chinaman
in hiding to cover the whole thing up? Really.
It was Colonel Mustard.
AN ANGRY YOUNG MAN
Dearest Darling Airhead,
Mike isn't *bad', he's BAD! Vanna is an
incurable glop of filth - - and Whitney should be
gutted like a trout, cleaned with solvent and fed to
infected newts, her purulent corpse left to decay in the
hellish pastel depths of the staff washroom at GOOD
ROCKIN'TONITE!!! YARGII! YECH! May Mojo
and Skid accost Stu Jeffries, the pungent worm and
violently extract his offensive frontal incisors.
Glen F.
"Let he who is without sin cast the first stone."
(somebody famous)
THEY LIKE US!
I think Discorder is getting better. Espe- daily the last few issues . ..
I think you're magazine makes a refreshing change from all the usual bullshit we're fed
through all the media .. .
I must say I got quite a kick out of the
"Religion" edition of your publication especially the
review of the Pontiff live. Upon showing my copy of
Discorder to my friends, one of them expressed a
desire for a subscription ...
Thanks so much for the wonderful envelope and the January Discorder issue! Without going
into detail, I was in a much better mood after receiving
the above and I enjoyed reading Matt Richards' "A
Christmas Story" and Dave Campbell's "What kind
of year did you have?" Well, I didn't enjoy Matt's
story, but I did like it...
Various
See? People do compliment us on occasion. Discorder always welcomes praise, though it prefers money.
Incidentally, subscribers should note that it's not
Randy, but Randy's sister who's responsible for the
envelope decorations.
FEBRUARY, MONTH OF TRUE LOVE AND
celebrated bloody murder. Needless to say, there's
always a good excuse for a decent concert and this
particular month appears to be supplying more than
its share. CITR, of course, is concerned and deeply
involved.
The fun begins Sunday, the 7* at '86 Street with the
return of Georgia's Guadalcanal Diary. Word is,
they blew REM off the stage a year or so ago at the
War Memorial Gym. Does that make them the best
American Rock 'n Roll ban of our day? Probably
not. Three days later (the 10*), the original
Wallers bring their tribute to the great Bob
(Marley) to '86 Street. Toke with care, if you must,
they don't take kindly to it there. That Friday, (the
12*), Art Bergman's out here at UBCin the SUB
(Student Union Building) Ballroom, with guests
The Scramblers. Then DOA and Bolero Lava
take us full circle to the '86 Street again on Sunday
night (the 14*). Yes, its a Valentine's Day bash,
but are they celebrating love or ultra-violence? Is
there a difference?
Finally, the fun shifts to Graceland Wednesday
night (the 17*) for the return of Tackhead. What's
a tackhead, you might ask? Well, its three very in-
demand musicians - - Keith   Leblanc (Drums),
Doug Wimbish (Bass), Skip McDonald (everything else) - - and two of their friends (Gary Clail
and Adrian Sherwood). Expect an evening of
mutant-hip-hop-heavy-metal (or something like
that). Hopefully (!!!!!!) Mr. Sherwood will be out
here in the studios for a live on-air mix. But
remember, home taping is killing is music.
Who said February's a short month?
TERM PAPER BLUES?
We have RESEARCH PAPERS, Thousands
on File. If you're stumped for a topic, or
stymied for sources, we can help, using
authoritative source material. All
research studies are fully documented with
bibliography and footnotes.
Confidential • Overnight Delivery Available
All materials are provided for research purposes only,
L
24 hrs. call:
985-7274
Term Paper
Assistance
Catalog ol 17,278
Research Papers
NORTHERN RESEARCH
3832 Lawrence Place,
North Vancouver, B.C.
VANCOUVER EAST CULTURAL CENTRE
Ifut
Three days of
sizzling percussion
- new sounds
- new works
- new artists
Sal Ferrer as
Artistic Director
FEBRUARY
11-13 8pm
VECC It Vancouver Folk
Music Festival present
FillfS
(aka Biml
(Tickets for this event
also available at Black
Swan Records, Highlife
Records and
Vancouver Folk Music
Festival
FEBRUARY
23-27 8 pm
Theatre
Ballet of
Canada
new works by
Canada's premiere
contemporary
ballet company
MARCH
2-5 8 pm
Tickets VTC - 280-4444/Reservations 254-9578
FEBRUARY 1988 EXCUSE   ME.
EXCUSE   ME.    „^TT^^     WTn
EXCUSE   ME.
WHAT   DOES   THIS   KEAN   TO   YOU ?
Woman HI: It doesn't mean a great deal to me. It
could be a symbol for a company that sells... A-
frame ski lodges... 'A' for apple?
Esther: Not 'A' for anarchy?
Woman HI: A for anarchy?... no. I think it's totally
inappropiate. This is too neat. It's complete. It's
very organized. Straight lines. The circle looks a bit
wonky but its still a circle. I think for anarchy you
want to have a whole lot of loose lines going in
every direction.
Man #2: It looks like a cattle brand to me...
CIRCLE-A-Ranch.
Man #2: It looks like an 'A' with a circle around it.
It's not that impressive. What are you trying to do,
create a logo or somethin'?
Woman 82: Vmnot for anarchy. I think its chaotic.
It doesn't have any kind of democratic principles.
Anarchy is when people do what they feel like
whenever they feel like it. People have all kinds of
uncontrolled impulses... and interests, you know...
that aren't necessarily thought out or even
understood by tne people themselves. And I don't
think that others have a right to impose their way
on everybody else. You know we need to respect
the views and rights of those around us. That's why
I'm against anarchy.
EXC
use
excu
S^
we.
STOAT  AND  EGGS.
EXCUSE   HE.
£*c
%%cv
s^
•&"£
0sB
Woman #3: For me, this is like a sphynx, a
pyramid. Sometimes, if you are helpless, you can't
cope physically even though mentally, you are still
functioning. No matter how helpless people are,
they still have a dream or a fantasy in themselves.
It's just because of their physical inability and their
disabilities that they can't just go out and show
what they have in their minds.
Woman Mi It could be Amnesty International... the
Atomic Energy Committee.
Compiled by Esther Hadley
Wilson: To the best of my knowledge,
having read history back and forth for four
decades, no ruling elite has ever encouraged
the pluralist paradigm. All power structures try to brainwash everybody into a
single tunnel-reality, with State education,
Holy Inquisitions, FBIs, Gestapos, Drug
Administrations, etc., and anybody who
questions that tunnel-reality gets the hemlock (Socrates, 4th century B.C.), burning
at the stake (Bruno, 17th century), the
bottom cell in the basement at Folsom
(Leary, 1973), or some similar discouragement. "Communication is only possible
between equals" as Hagbard Celine and I
keep telling people, and no ruling elite is
ready, willing, or able to receive dissenting
signals from independents or mavericks.
Once you accept a pluralist universe, you
are logically compelled to accept a pluralist
society—i.e., a decentralized, libertarian,
or outright anarchist society—and no ruling class can accept that idea.
Man #3: It looks more like a symbol for Ist class or
something like that... A-l?
Esther: What is your view of anarchy?
Man #3: Anarchy? I don't know. If you're very
young you believe in anarchy... after you reach a
certain age, you don't see it the same way.
Man #4: From what I understand, m'am, that
symbol means 'anarchy'. I think very little of anarchy on the whole, but when I think of it, I think it's
philosophically a fine idea. Practically, it's tricky.
Esther: How would you go about bringing anarchy
into the world?
Man #4:1 would start with disarray...well... get
very ragged, get very rough...no! I wouldn't say
that... I have no actual plan for bringing anarchy
into the world other than just general lapse.
Man #5: It means the beginning because MA" is the
first letter of the alphabet.
pian.
Anafcapfisfr
DISCORDER
*f£
Victims: Guidelines and Characteristics
A victim sounds like this: "Poor
me! Why is it always me? Life is unfair! I
never get what I want... waaah!"
It's heard all the time, everywhere.
It's quite popular and even acceptable to be,
and remain, a victim. But being actively
involved in this complex form of self-abuse is
not to be taken lightly. It takes a lot of
determination and dedication to maintain a
certain level of whining and blaming.
One must also tolerate sympathy,
convince all at large that one is most certainly
to be pitied. One's excuse can be fabricated or
authentic - - it depends on one's level of
awareness and willingness to play the game.
One can include as part of the cause other
members of society, children, whatever works.
Self-victimization is a way of life
and a fulltime j b. One must never let on that
one is quite capable of managing alone.
There are certain drawbacks
however that one must also deal with. One
may suddenly feel resentment that one's
happiness depends almost entirely upon the
amount of attention one receives from others;
apathy could take over, guilt has a way of
getting in there as well.
Things just couldn't get worse!
Denise Richard &$a*?F:^&W'%-
NO MINORS
$S:6Qi*&^\eat AMS Box Off ice, Track
::;.:m:-y:'^ Its announcers work under assumed names,
its locations are a well-kept secret and
listeners caught "tuning in" endanger their
lives. A typical one-hour broadcast will
include several interruptions. At a moment's
notice, the operators may have to uproot themselves and equipment to locate to a safer broadcasting "studio". If electronic air surveillance fails to
uncover their location, highly sophisticated
communications apparatus will have succeeded in
"jamming" their frequency.
This is clandestine radio in El Salvador.
From the trenches of the war fronts to a peasants'
demonstration on a coffee plantation, Radio
Farabundo Marti and Radio Venceremos transmit
the day's events to the Salvadoran people. The two
rebel stations were established by the Farabundo
Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN), the
political-military opposition in El Salvador's
ongoing seven-year civil war. In the early 1980s,
the state of seige declared by the Jose Napolean
Duarte government effectively silenced all
opposition media. News reports concerning the
state of war or references to the FMLN as anything
but "a group of terrorists" were outlawed. The
government's information blockade permitted only
the "official" version of news to reach Salvadorans.
With local press virtually "gagged" at
gunpoint and the military unwilling to part with
information, rebel radio has become an indispensable source for military reports. Recognized for
their accuracy, the radio's war correspondents
(often reporting directly from the line of fire) are
extensively quoted by intematinal news agencies
(UPI, ANSA, LATIN REUTER, etc).
Breaking the silence, Radios Farabundo
Marti and Venceremos have united all sectors of
Salvadoran society. From the small businessman to
the peasant, people all over the country turn to the
radios as a legitimate source of information and
education. In addition to international and regional
news, each broadcast includes cultural programs.
Health and literacy advances made through FMLN
campaigns are reported. Instructional programs are
invaluable to those living in El Salvador's war
zones. The stations' teachings on the construction
of make-shift bomb shelters have literally saved
thousands of lives during government air attacks.
£A£i0
Salvadoran cultural values, overwhelmed by years of U.S. domination, have been
restored through rebel radio. The new Salvadoran
folk music created by fusing the traditional musical
instruments and rythms with revolutionary lyrics,
instills a new sense of national pride and dignity in
the listener.
Radios Farabundo Marti and Venceremos are not limited to radio transmissions inside El
Salvador. The courageous spirit of the Salvadoran
people who face war's destruction and inhumanity
daily is captured on film for both local and
international audiences. Radio Farabundo Marti
also produces weekly and monthly news summaries for world-wide distribution.
From its caverns in the mountains to its
underground dugouts, the voice of clandestine
radio has stubbornly persisted in El Salvador.
Despite bombardments, interference and the need
for constant mobility, each station has sustained its
four daily one hour broadcasts since 1980.
Broadcasting from the territories controlled by the
FMLN, mobile radio units continue to elude
military detection. While the operators and location
of rebel radio remain a mystery, its reputation does
not. FMLN radio is the voice of the Salvadoran
people.
From January through July 1988, CiTR
is co-sponsoring a campaign to rasie funds for
Radio Farabundo Marti Radio Venceremos of the
FMLN. The objective of the six month campaign is
to provide each station with a complete operational
set of broadcasting equipment. Seven years of
transmitting from war zones and frequent
government attacks continually threaten the work
of the radios. Needless to say, the life of the radio
equipment is uncertain, not to mention the lives of
its operators. In British Columbia, the El Salvador
Information Collective (ESIC) will raise ten
thousand dollars toward the purchase of shortwave operating equipment. For free information
on the campaign, or to find out how you can help,
contact: The El Salvador Information Collective,
*203-337 West Pender, Vancouver, (604) 684-
7342
DISCORDER SlAQCTtCTfouSffioA
•SKATEBOARDS*
► Vision
»Powell
► Santa Cruz
►G&S
• Sims
»Schmitt
SKATE
T-SHIRTS
ANY DECK    ANY WHEELS!   ANY TRUCKS
$ 57.00 $ 9.49 $ 19.88
wwSpedtllww sale iTg«s»frww/A Special!'w
SNOLUBOflRDS
&mper Snowboards ins.
STORI
.Gnu 5N0W7ECH
688 95SS
—    1143   Granville   -      P5£T
FEBRUARY 1988 A&A WELCOMES...
GUADALCANAL
DIARY
IN CONCERT FEBRUARY 7th
AT THE 86th STREET MUSIC HALL
"2 x 4"
cassette or Ip
6
97
each
Also On Sale
"Jamboree"
and
"Walking In The
Shadow Of
The Big Man"
590 WEST PENDER ST.   I ^WH Cf 10065
776 GRANVILLE ST.       °^^ Q™*<* ZuJtSu^
and associated stores
Quantities limited. Sale ends February 14, 1988.
PuviocffiEffi,
Top Spk
For your dance, get
CiTR Mobile Sound
228-3017
Gorilla walks into the room and saddles
up to the bar.  "What's your poison?" asks the
bartender.
"Politics," responds the furry one.
"Will that be sexual, bureaucratic,
municipal or power politics?"
The gorilla pauses.  "Oh, just gimme
whatever you've got on tap."
"Ya know, we don't get many gorillas in
here," the barkeep lazily comments.
"Well ai these prices, I'm not surprised," the gorilla snaps curtly.
Did you know it's the 70th anniversary
of the October Revolution? The October
Revolution, dude! Who cares really, ya know?
That was then and this is now. The important thing
is that this is a different time, i.e. a New Age. Now
you can pay someone fifteen bucks and for a whole
half hour you get some heavy-duty channelling.
Hold it a second, you don't know about channelling? Wake up and smell the cappuccino,
Virginia. It's the perfect way to fulfillment and
contentment in today's hectic dog eat dog world of
suffering and man's inhumanity to man. Channelling consists of one person using his or her body
to act as the vessel for the spirit of an ancient being
for the benefit of us other lowly schleps. I mean,
this is the single most important phenomenon of
the last couple months.
10 DISCORDER rfect way to atone for our
s and gain important knowledge at the same
" time. You dish up your fifteen bucks as a penance,
and as an added bonus you become empowered by
the wisdom of an ancient being. All for only
fifteen bucks. What more could you ask for?
Think of all the stuff we can ask this wise spirit of
the past. I can't think of anything right now but
I'm sure there's something valuable it might know.
God knows, we certainly need some
help nowadays. The world's a mess. Nobody has
much faith in today's society. Guidance is
desperately required. Who seriously puts their
faith in politicians? If you are foolish enough to do
so then you deserve whatever fate is inflicted upon
you. We need some help and we need it now.
Certainly, living/breathing human beings do not
have any solutions; living humans are the cause of
all our problems.
False messiahs of the flesh have
appeared on various occasions. We're all well
aware now of how bogus Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh
was. Sure, he had us fueled and fooled for a little
while but eventually we learnt his evil ways. It
turns out that now the Connecticut General Life
Insurance Co. is foreclosing on the Bhagwan's
ranch in Oregon. How the mighty have fallen! But
Bhagwan is merely a plain old human when it
comes right down to it. Sure, he had a few ideas
but we all have our limitations. He seemed to be
well adjusted but then we learnt the truth.
Give me a non-living leader instead, a
being not caught up with material things and the
temptations of the flesh. Let's have a leader, or
rather 'guide' from time gone by. Sure, President
Reagan is old and wise but think of the wisdom of
a three thousand year old being. Reagan just
couldn't compete no matter how many books he
suddenly decided to read. The time is right to put
our faith in a being unencumbered by the
limitations of time and space. Humans are
imperfect and fallible. We need all the help we <
get. Channelling is the answer. Trust me. Hey
kids, let's Channel and let's Channel now. At
these prices, I'm not surprised.
Kevin S.
SPECIAL    iNf-SToRC   APP£APANGG    OP
at ^jgj uas&Jk
SATURDAY*, F56.6" .
317 AC AMBIENT. J
-M    I  * * THEATRE * *  I     m-_
16th & Arbutus 738-6311
Diluent
7:30 & 9:30
The Life and Death of
Vincent Van Gogh
A FILM BY PAUL COX
"Vincent is a film that
illuminates our view of
the artist's life and
times, but not like a
documentary—like a
painting. It is a
"The more I think it over,
the more I feel that there
is nothing more artistic
than to love people."
—Vincent, in a letter
to his brother Theo
work of art itself."
-Screen International
ENTER TO WIN RETURN AIR FARE FOR TWO TO AMSTERDAM
Courtesy of KLM Royal Dutch Airlines ^1    lites rule all the countries of the world
^^^   for their own interests, whether or not
j they care to admit it. Mostly, they do
JKLmmttm not, and so must keep their activities
secret. The object of these machinations is power:
raw, naked, godlike power. This should not be .
confused with mere economics. There are ways
other than bribery to get someone to do something
he wouldn't otherwise do, such as threatening to
shoot him, or gratifying his emotional needs
(through religion, idealism, racism, sexual
stimulation). As this power is only worthwhile if
exercised over other people, it is finite, and can
only be increased by reducing that of another
person (life as zero-sum gain).
These kind of activities make conspiracy
theories popular. To aid creative paranoia, here
are ten relevant, suggestive facts:
1. Canada's largest chartered bank pulled
all of its assets out of Iran the day before the
Iranian government seized the assets of all other
foreign banks.
2. The same bank maintains the world's
second largest private army. Recently, a U.S.
Senate committee expressed dismay over this
heavy weaponry. The army is based in Oman, as is
the largest private army, which is owned by Exxon.
3. For the past fifty years, the Dow Jones
has always dropped sharply on the year's last trading day, and always risen shaprly on the year's
first trading day. This allows large holders to
declare a loss on their taxes while not actually losing anything.
4. The World Stock Markets' recent Black
Tuesday followed a "Billionaires Club" meeting in
Washington (Jimmy Pattison was present). The
previous hyperinflation of the market followed a
similar meeting last March in Zurich.
5. Of every dollar spent on booze in the
world, sixty cents eventually finds its way into the
pockets of two brothers from Montreal.
6. Roberto Calvi, Managing Director of
the Banco Ambrosiano, and a member of a secret
Masonic lodge dedicated to the subversion of the
Italian state, was hanged from Blackfriar's Bridge
in Britain. His partner, Michele Sindona, was
poisoned in Vorhera prison. The Banco Ambro-
Politics consists <
disguised or rationalized by
(ideologies). The disguise is
should be removed. Make y
explicit
Where the u//nd ch/mes
rattle a cacarhony
of rott/ng 80nes...
THE
siano, which was the Vatican's lay financial
partner, collapsed in 1982, leaving about 1.3 billion
dollars owing. All indications were that these two
men could have been bribed to keep silent, but
someone didn't want to take that chance.
7. Over the past year, seventeen important
British defence scientists, most of them engaged in
laser and space-based research, have died under
very suspicious circumstances ranging from bizarre
auto accidents to carbon monoxide poisoning to
falling off well-railed balconies.
8. The U.S. Army now has twelve
divisions specifically designed for action in the less   f?,r3&k
developed parts of the world. *(d*EkM
9. During the Watergate Crisis, Richard
Nixon brought a recalcitrant CIA into line by
threatening to expose "the Mexican Stuff*. When
asked about this, Bob Hal demand said it referred to
the assasination of John F. Kennedy.
10. The CIA wasn't exactly displeased that
the Space Shuttle Challenger blew up. The next
several missions will be entirely top secret and
military.
Is there One Big Conspiracy, a sort of
master Cabal? This provides the most fuel for
paranoia. There are many connections between
the various conspiracies. The Royal Bank of
Canada launders money for the CIA. The Roman
Catholic Church had a partnership with the Banco \.
Ambrosiano, which was controlled by the Church's I
supposed arch-enemy, the Freemasons. All
important officials and magnates appear to belong
to the same think-tanks, such as the Trilateral _ *: ~™
Commission, or to know each other socially. It's ^kjfck
indisputable. There is considerable co-ordination
among the world's power elites. The primary f*.--   ^$*J
argument focuses on how much of this co-ordina- J '" *
tion is concious and deliberate, and how much is
unconcious, caused by shared values, goals, and
circumstances.
Rob Slmms
****£%% tes^g, ">d **    Con****
'   to be bey°^ "•     donono\ogy       so ^
gained »*ay* P     .
,r ruling
; Disorientation:
^TSSTSomPtb-
the longer they rule,
s because evei
rybody
I gressive Disown..-.
1 the crazier they get. That's b
I lies to the men in power — some to escape
1 punishment, some to flatter and curry favor.
\ The result is that the elite get a very warped
I idea of the world indeed. This applies to all
I pyramidal organizations — armies,corporatioi
l or governments. It even applies to old-
I fashioned patriarchal families. The individual
I or group at the top feed entirely on flattering
decepuveg^rbage.
!f<-n
m
%
ffh
*f
12
J%
*H
DISCORDER of demands,
dubious philosophy
; an absurdity and
our demands
The idea that there are no conspiracies has been popularized by historians working
for the universities and institutes funded by the
principal conspirators of our time: the
Rockefeller-Morgan banking interests, the
Council on Foreign Relations crowd, the Trilateral Commision. This is not astonishing or
depressing. Conspiracy is standard mammalian
politics for reasons to be found in ethology and
Von Neumann's and Morgenstern's Theory of
Games and Economic Behavior. Vertebrate
competition depends on knowing more than the
opposition, monopolozing information along
with territory, hoarding signals. Entropy, in a
word.
^piRAcV
It only takes 20 years for a liberal to
become a conservative without changing a
single idea.      	
w*
My experience is that almost
everybody thinks somebody else is to blame for
their problems. If it isn't the Jews or the
Catholics or the International Bankers, it's the
Masons or the ecologists or the local utility.
Kids blame their parents. Parents blame their
kids. In a sense, all of these "conspiracy"
theories are self-calming, in that they put the
problem outside in an "enemy" who can be
hated and blamed, but that is the only sense in
which I can find the average domesticated
primate to be self-calming. To organize a lynch
mob or a riot — to yell, "The Enemy's over
there, fellers!" and get a crowd behind you— is
still the easiest game on the Planet of the Apes.
I see the power game as resting on
three levels of force and fraud. First, earliest
and still most powerful is the government
racket itself, the monopoly of force (military
power, police power, etc.) which allows the
governing group to take tribute (taxation) from
the enslaved or deluded masses. Second, derivative from this primordial conquest, is the
landlord rackel, the mammalian monopoly on
territory which allows the king's relatives
(lords-of-the- lands) or their successors, today's
"landlords", to take tribute (rent) from those
who live within the territory. Rent is the
daughter of taxation; the second degree of the
same racket. Third, the latest in historical time,
is the usury racket, the monopoly on the issue
of currency which allows the money-lords to
take tribute (interest) on the creation of money
or credit, and on the continuous circulation of
the money or credit every step of the way.
Interest is the son of rent, the rent of money.
Current welfare practices emerged
from 70 years of struggle between liberals and
conservatives; the conservatives won most of
the battles. The system functions to heighten
the addiction syndrome. The recipient gets a
small fix at the beginning of the month, nicely
calculated to support one extremely frugal
miser until about the 10th of the month.
Through hard experience, he or she learns to
make this last until the 15th, or maybe even the
20th. The rest of the month is experienced as
acute biosurvival anxiety. This deprivation
period, as any pusher or Skinnerian conditioner
knows, maintains the whole cycle. On the first
of the next month, another money fix is allowed
and the whole drama begins anew.
My basic philosophy can be
expressed as follows: the prosperous and
growing nations have nothing in common
politically. Some are capitalist, or state
capitalist, some are socialist or mixed economies, some are communist, some facist. The
politics is obviously irrelevant to their relative
success. What do we have in common? Advanced technology. And vice versa! There is no
common politics among the starving, backward
nations. Some are primitive capitalist, some
feudal, some facist, some socialist. What do
they have in common? Backward technology or
no technology. How, then, will we solve the
problems afflicting this planet? Not by politics
of any sort; all of it is irrelevant mammalian
ritual. We will solve our problems by better,
cheaper, more efficient technology; especially
space migration, the technology of consciousness and intelligence raising, and life extension.
FEBRUARY 1988
13 FEBRUARY
5/6 CURIOUS GEORGE with
opening - 12 MIDNITE
12 THE HANGMEN with
THE HORMONES
13 THE SCRAMBLERS
with THE HORMONES
19/20 T.B.A.
26 NOMEANSNO the day
everthing became nomeansno
27 NOMEANSNO Nomeansno
clones Ramones with
TRAGIC MULATTO
28 LAST NIGHT OF LIVE
MUSIC! Call for details
I LIVE MUSIC IN THE LOUNGE I
I  FRIDAYSFROM10.30-SATURDAYSFROM 11:30PM    |
ARTS CLUB THEATRE 1181 SEYMOUR 683-0151
y SHAKESPEARE
FILM FESTIVAL
SUNDAYS AT 1:30 P.M.
JANUARY 31ST      laurence
OLIVIER
OTHELLO
FEBURARY 7TH
Burton     —'Sh££-wI
Roman Polanski's
MACBETH
JOHN FINCH
FEBRUARY 21ST
"HENRY V"
LAURENCE   ~«?
OLIVIER
of the bard's heroic dra
achievement as actor, producer and director") is a
magnificent blend of realism and artifice, history and
storybook romance—the first Shakespeare film to be both
commercially and artistically successful. Robert Newton, Les
Banks, Renee Asherson. (1944)
i.ilU'lAl/.'-.'ul   EVERY FRIDAYS SATURDAY
MIDNITE! All Ages Admitted
0      /.       sn% DOWNTOWN- 919 GRANVILLE at SMITME
Studio (ftnama       24 hour info call 681-1732
Everything
Under the Sun
from the 50's to
the 80's
,M&
14
DISCORDER CURRENT 93
Imperium
CURRENT 93/HOH
Crowleymass
MALDOROR (U.K.)
David Tibet, who for all intents and purposes IS
Current 93, is nothing if not a stickler for detail. He
leaves no stone unturned in his attempts to make his
various releases living, breathing spectres of Hell:
his choice of grammar on record sleeves, the placement of the various tracks on the disc, the packaging... the list could go on and on.
More than anything else, it's the obvious thought that
goes into everthing he does that compels the listener
in turn to think...one way or another. Sonicly, Imperium, the most recent Current 93 album, has little in
common with earlier releases. Most of the electronic
gnashing and grinding is gone. The sound is fairly
honest, almost natural. Acoustic guitar work, Tibet's
voice, choirs moaning in the background - - these are
the main sources. But there's also a variety of subtle
washings buried deep in the mix. You could listen for
ages and never figure all of them out, though the
overall message is abundantly clear without delving
too far anyway. This aspect characterizes all of
Tibet's work. Whether you take what he is saying to
you seriously on not, you must ultimately admit to
the sheer power and ingenuity of the ways in which
he says it.
The 12" single, Crowleymass, released simultaneously with Imperium, is what we've all been waiting for... gothic rap has arrived. For years now New
York sidewalk commandoes have been telling us
about how horrid life is. Now we have it taken to its
logical excess. This is tremendoulsy funny with
instruments and drums by IIOH (Hilmar orn
Himarsson - ex Psychic TV) and vocals by Tibet and
Rose McDowell (Strawberry Switchblade).
Larry Thiessen
DEPECHE MODE
Music for the Masses
There are artistic as well as economic and social
reasons for examining the pros and cons of taking an
early retirement. In this case, any reason will do.
Surely machines can be pensioned off more easily
than people.
Larry Thiessen
COOL J
BAD
A 17 Second Interview with
Oversoul 7
Are Women Magical?
No, they got nothing special
going for them.
What's your favorite burger place?
Wendys.
You have two big guys and one small one in
the band. Does this make a difference?
Yes, the best place to see
Oversoul 7 is from the balcony.
How many original songs do you have?
30.
John Ruskln
Once you get by the inherent sexism that permeates a
lot of LL Cool J's music you have to admit that this guy
can put out some pretty righteous beats. While RUN
DMC layer their rap with heavy metal guitar riffs, LL
(aka James Smith) and his DJ Cut Creator program the
hell out of their drum machine and put it right up front
in the mix. Since LL and his producers have seen fit
to add in the odd guitar sample, BAD's sound isn't as
strippped down as 1985's Radio, but they use them
sparingly and wisely. Though the term "crossover"
doesn't exactly aply here, homeboys white and black
are going to buy this one. LL Cool J's raps run the
gamut from macho posturing to pissed off preaching
with uptown rhetoric. He can be frightening and
hilarious in the space of a breath and if he can do all this
at age 18 he's going to be awesome in a couple of years.
Mark Quail
THROWING MUSES
THE FAT SKIER
4AD
FEED ME FEED ME! They scream. Owee! I'm
being consumed by a deluge of carnal screamings and
thomy-souled women. The coy ravings of Kristen
Hersh coupled with the Muses' spare, melodic
rhythms envelope your brain and prickle your insides.
Their songs are intense but ambivalent: anger and
hurt undercut by naked jubilation. Soap And Water
exemplifies the seeming contradiction, as self-
absorbed delirium finally collapses into nothing with
'I caught a star, though.' Give yourself to...the Fat
Skier.
K. Uhrich
Pogues' Shane McGowan, Commodore, December '87 (photo, Bill Jans)
FEBRUARY 1988        15 D.W. MORRIS
Why Pay More?
This isn't music! This is just excerpts from a radio
program broadcast weekly out of CKLN-FM
(Toronto) which is itself just excerpts from all the
other radio programs broadcast on the station. Edited
excerpts. Mixed excerpts. Mashed excerpts. This is
not music! There'snot one original sound. Hmmmm.
Maybe it is music. What is music anyway? I do like
the way it all spills together. Kind of like a week's
sensory input accelerated into ninety minutes. Kind
of like a cross section of the modem brain. If this is
music (and who says it isn't? Mozart? What the hell
does he know? He's dead and besides he was a
Freemason), then maybe the future won't be so bland
after all. It will be confusing though. Cassette only.
Contact: D.W. Morris, P.O. Box 242 Station B,
Toronto, Ontario M5T2W1
MARK STEWART & MAFFFIA
This is Stranger Than Love
Every so often someone "discovers" Erik Satie's
Gymnopedie #1 and tries to do something "special"
with it. The fact that it's been done so many, many
times before seems to be elusive...likewise the fact
that the original is still better.
MOTORHEAD
Rock 'N' Roll
Ode To Lemmy
I love the sound of Motorhead
And Lemmy's pounding bass
They thrash and smash and slash about
And bash you in the face.
I love the force of Motorhead
And their awesome deafening sound
It's like a bag of wet cement
As it crashes on the ground.
This new disk from Motorhead
They call it Rock *N' Roll
It heaves and throbs and belches
And" screws your very soul.
Yeah, this new one from Motorhead
It's fierce and so profane
It'll penetrate inside your skull
And wreck your quivering brain.
Larry Thiessen
PAUL SERRET
Tapis Volant
Paul Serret plays a Persian Santoor, an instrument
whose origins date back at least 3000 years. Said to
be the predecessor to the harpsichord/piano, its
sounds are richly harmonic, delicately powerful and
vaguely middle eastern in reference. On this release,
Monsieur Serret has chosen to highlight this unique
sound through juxtaposition with the more common,
modem sounds of synthesizers (Geoffrey Wakefield) and percussion. The fusion is effective, merging old with new in a way that evokes timelessness.
The concept of Tapis Volant (French for
flying carpet) is of a journey through sonic landscapes. It may sound like a new age cliche, but it
really works. I found myself simply flipping the tape
after each pass, never being sure of how long I had
been listening or for that matter, where I had been.
Once inside this aural environment you become
simply oblivious to any other stimulus. Try it (with
headphones) and you'll hear what I mean.
Paul Serret should be familiar to anyone
who has travelled the downtown area by foot. He can
often be heard playing his santoor amid some of the
most resonant architecture in town. Tapis Volant is
an entirely local product, utilizing some of the best in
local talent. It should not be overlooked by anyone
who has a desire for the exotic. Cassette only. P.O.
Box 15347 Vancouver V6B 5B1
Robert Shea
CiTR presents:
Your Last Chance To Get Lucky!!!
SKI TRIP FOR TWO TO RED
MOUNTAIN COURTESY OF:
ADVENTURES   LTD,
Every Thursday night in February (8p.m. to 1a.m.) at the Pit at UBC.
**%
KMS
NucleoProtein
Hair & Skin Care
Products
COPY
CENTRE
OCTOPUS
BOOKS  LTD.
ZplBl
HAffiDESIGNERS LTD.
COMMERCIAL
DRIVE
COLLECTORS
■■ill HII Hi II ■
TORTELLINI'S
tefc&
<Vldtogttf
16
DISCORDER SCREAMING BLUE MESSIAHS
Bikini Red
Bikini Red has the Screaming Blue Messiahs sounding a little more focussed and forceful than on last
year's Gun Shy. Using adrenalin-charged Gang of
Four style guitar rushes, the SBMs attack with the
same inspired primitivism that made the Sex Pistols
so unforgetable. On Bikini Red guitarist/songsmith
Bill Carter has immersed himself in American pop
culture and produced some spot-on sketches of life in
the Home-of-the-Brave-Tabloid-Readers. Some are
wry, others are outright hilarious. Bikini Red is an
outsider's view of everyday junk, and while not revelatory, it is fun.
Mark Quail
ROYAL CRESANT MOB
Omerta
If the Red Hot Chili Peppers are funk on benzedrine,
these guys are merely funk smelling white sugar-
yeah, it's not as frenzied as the Peppers. Traces of
icky '80s rap, and marvellous blues harmonica, yet
definitely (huh huh) funk. They say Elvis is everywhere but man (Good God!) James Brown can be
anywhere.  (Auurrieah!)
iftiffwiwtffim
jk/
wSm3
%
«w.
J!
__
one of the best paperback literature selections in Vancouver
albion books and records
523 Richards St. • Vancouver • 662-3113
We buy and sell quality used books and records.
COLLECTOR'S R.P.M. is
CEtf»»*0
IHTO
U<*
uwtf»o*»
20-70% Off entire stock of
Collectable & pre owned records, cassettes, 8-tracks,
>osters, memorabilia, magazines, T-shirts, tour pro
?grams, rock banners.
All import LP's 12"x7", 45's are 10% over cost
LP's from 88C (limit 5 per customer, per day)
CD's 10% off
LECTOR'S R.P.M. (604) 685-8841
498 Seymour St., Vancouver, B.C. V6B 3H1
Joe Strummer (with Pogues), Commodore, December '87
FEBRUARY 1988
17 7^&?ya^ Tffn^t^n^lh
what isf
*   ebruary being the shortest month is as
M good an excuse as any, I suppose, to keep
this installment of Local Motion brief too (it also
helps that I'm way behind on listening to demos, as
always at this time of year).
As far as out of-town bands coming to
town, January's been a pretty dead month, with
Game Theory turning out to be the gig to go to—
even though the sound was quite abysmal (I kept
wondering if I was just imagining those keyboards
cutting in and out). Certainly, there were enough
sociable local music types there for me to almost
make up for missing the CITR Christmas party.
Cannon Heath Down, who opened, sounded very
nice as usual, in spite of appearing a little awed by
the Town Pump's big stage.
As for the local scene, The Hip Type
celebrated finally latching onto a drummer by
putting out Volume 1, Issue 1 of The Secrets of the
Hip Type, which is a magazine full of all sorts of
groovy and well documented facts like Tracy and
Erica's (they should know) five hot tips for
"picking up babes". To join their fan club, write:
The Hip Type, 879 West 16th Ave., Vancouver, V5Z
1S9.
And as for the almost local scene, my
favorite band (that's still together, of course), The
Young Fresh Fellows, are back in the studio
starting work on album number four, their second
for Frontier Records. And if Vancouver's Young
Fresh Friends (like me) keep crossing our fingers,
the Fellows should be rolling up from Seattle to
play the last weekend in February or thereabouts.
this? {■
In the world of demo tapes, two songs
by the recent Shindig winners The 4 Ones are now
on the air, "George the Whale" and "Telefon".   As
I'm not very good at explaining the band's
sound— it seems people quite passionately love
them or hate them anyway— the best I can do is
describe "George the Whale" as funny/cruel/nasly/
kind of disgusting/ a social statement.
Also fresh to CITR's airwaves is
"Forgiven" by the Velveteens, a band whose lineup
has changed considerably since their self-produced
record of some time ago. The 'Teens took a year
off, adding former Crimpolines accordian player/
singer Karen Anderson (you can hear her backup
vocals on this song) and Hoi Polloi's old drummer,
and moving away from the old sound which
Laurence describes as "quite a bit darker" than
what's on this tape.
To round off this month's column, a
demo from Green For Go that's commercially
available, at least at Track and Zulu. Not the best
recording quality in the world, but these guys have
pop sensibilities. They write simple, fun songs and
seem to have a good time playing them. This is the
kind of band, though, that could be way better live.
I guess I'll see for myself. Currently playlisted :
"Now Reaction".
Janis
<*EEK
fAVEfcNA
"Lamb on a Spit our Specialty'9
DAILY SPECIALS FOR
LUNCH AND DINNER
Try our unique menu, including
•Tzanziki, Melitzano, Houmos
•Spanakotiropita, Saganaki, Lukaniko
•Souvlakia, Mousaka, Kalamaria
•And much, much more!
•Plus... pizza
• Pasta also a specialty
Mon. • Sat. 11 a.m. to 1 a.m.
Sunday to Midnight
TAKE OUT • CATERING • WEDDINGS
ANNIVERSARIES • BIRTHDAYS
FREE DELIVERY
Phone for Reservations:
736-2118 / 736-9442
2272 West 4th Ave., Kitsilano
mm: CITR
Presents
DOA.
Bolero Lava
Black Heart
Valentines  Dat
(p Dance
SUNDAT   FEBRUAR7   T^TH
S6 st. TVlusrc Hall
H)     Doors open T pm
^•f "NO MINORS \p
Advance Tickets at all VTC/CBO outlets,
Zulu Records,
Odtsset Imports $ AMS Box Office.
Listen To CITR for Contest Details
Produced bt AMS Concerts
FEBRUARY 1988 19 OnTheDial
WEEKDAY HIGHLIGHTS
MONDAYS
RANDOM DESIGNS
7:30-10:00 am
"Packed like sardines they were, all horizontal
you know. Trying to piece together the night
before. It would have helped if the bed wasn't trying to be a heli-futon.. ." (Hey man, get that rabbit off my rug! I'm, like trying to tell a story and
you're just being so oppressive, I can't deal with
it anymore.) Do you have problems with Mondays? Life? The Anti-Christ? Join Melissa and
the invisible DJs from hell as they bring you real
problems live on the air.
HOT PINK MONDAYS
6:00-8:00 pm
Ex-Life After Bed host Garnet Harry does what
he does best — absolutely nothing.
THE JAZZ SHOW
9:00-12:30 am
Vancouver's longest-running prime time Jazz
program, featuring all the classic players, the
occasional interview, and local music news.
Hosted by the ever-suave Gavin Walker.
01 Feb. Bluestime on the Jazz Feature to open
the month. . . Jimmy Witherspoon, one
of the very best blues based Jazz singers performs on one of his most outstanding outings
with the great tenor saxophonist Ben Webster
and good funky arrangements by trumpeter,
Gerald Wilson.
08 Feb. "The Green Leaves of Summer" is the
title of one of pianist Hampton Hawes'
best albums; recorded in 1964 after his release
from jail. He was sprung by a direct presidential
pardon (J.F.K.) Tune in. . . hear this album and
some pertinent facts about this great pianist.
75 Feb. "Ornette" is a classic Ornette Coleman
date that up until recently was a rare
recording. Ornette's quartet with himself on alto
saxophone, Don Cherry on "pocket" trumpet,
Eddie Blackwell on drums and the late, great innovator on accoustic bass. . . Scott LaFaro.
22 Feb. One of the most overlooked and underrated musicians was tenor saxophonist
Hank Mobley. Overshadowed by John Coltrane
and Sonny Rollins in the fifties. . . Hank proves
on this album that he's right up there with the
"giants". Hank with Freddie Hubbard (trumpet),
Wynton Kelly (piano) and Art Blakey (drums) etc.
"Roll Call" on Blue Note.
29 Feb. "No 1 Green Street" one of guitarist
Grant Green's earliest and finest recordings. Grant in an unfettered setting accompanied by just bass and drums. Guitar magic. . .
standards, originals and blues.
ENVIRONMENTAL SCATOLOGY
12:30-4:00 am
I kill you with a knife.
I kill you with a gun.
I kill you just for fun.
Just to see your blood run. . .
Down my drain
I'm not insane
You're gonna feel pain.
TUESDAYS
PEST CONTROL
11:00-1:00 pm
It's not nuclear war that will kill you. Nor toxic
waste, acid rain, ozone depletion, microwaves,
chemical pollutants, or right wing death squads.
It's killer bees. They're coming up from South
American and they'll be here by 1990. Listen. And
learn how to cope.
BLOOD ON THE SADDLE
1:00-3:00 pm
Every Tuesday, music to scrape the cowshit off
your boots to.
QUALITY TIME -
THE LATCHKEY KID'S COMPANION
3:00-5:00 pm
Oral Dave fills the void before your parents get
home. You can turn the TV down and listen to
the radio instead. We'll help you with your
homework and give you tips on what to make
Mom and Dad for dinner.
AURAL TENTACLES
Midnight-4:00 am
This Tuesday nite from midnite till 4 in the
morning:
A tragedy will occur, Some people will enjoy sex,
Some will get high, countless cigarettes will be
torched, numerous bottles will be emptied, a Big
Mac will be consumed, A hubcap will be stolen
in Surrey, The Wide World of Drugs will be heard
(around 2), Someone will throw Up, Mutant rats
will be born, Nocturnal 'red-eyes' wearing either
nothing at all or wearing drab institutional garb
(You know, those 'white jackets' with the funny
sleeves tied behind the back) will receive a Very
Special message from GOD, telling he/she why
he/she has been selected as the chosen one,
AND Aural Tentacles will creep out into the nite
(spewing forth undefinable sounds). Cheap
Lobotomy perfomred by Pierre Huish!!!
WEDNESDAYS
THE CLASSICAL SHOW
7:30-10:00 am
A variety of musical styles ranging from the early Medieval to the 20th Century. All styles will be
discussed with historical importance. Requests
taken. Hosted by Wolfgang J. Ehebald.
* PAULA TAKES LIBERTIES
1:00-5:00 pm
Paula discovers innerviews! Listen to Paula take
liberties with the likes of Ray Condo and Art
Bergmann, plus whoever else has the guts to
show up and have their brains picked. Listen to
Paula play music from her past and future, but
never her present. (Present? For me? Why thank
you!) Listen to Paula play original songs on her
guitar (the next Jimi Hendrix!) Expect the
unexpected.
NCP
Midnight-4:00 pm
Consider the following:
I   Not Crazy People
II Neo-Christian Paganists
III New Contraceptive Protection
IV Never Cook People
V Napalm Coincidental Permutations
Given that everything is totally irrelevent, NCP is:
THURSDAYS
THE SPICE OF LIFE
7:30-10:00 am
If you're in bed tap your foot to this variety of
sounds. I don't expect to rise you out of bed but
at least made your stay more enjoyable!?
GREEK WEEKLY REPORT
5:15-5:30 pm
Brothers Pi, Gamma and Delta will be bringing
you all the information on what is happening inside the Greek Society at UBC. Everything from
sports & social information to the Greek tune of
the week, as well as the Greek personal columns
will be heard each week.
THE VINYL FRONTIER
5:30-8:00 pm
The Spinlist will never be the same again! Tune
in. Turn on. Drop out.
TOP OF THE BOPS
8:00-9:00 pm
Young advertising executives! Hear the jingles
for your campaigns of tomorrow, today! Your host
Marc "The Perfessor" Coulavin plays them all;
"Houndog" (dog food), "Blue Suede Shoes" (get
it?), "Kitty Kay" (well ?), "Candy Rock" (how
'bout it?), "Hot dog" (I kid you not... .), "French
fried potatoes and ketchup" (See Roy Brown's
estate about that one.. .)
FRIDAYS
FRIDAY MORNING MAGAZINE
7:30-10:30 am
The re-emergence of New Souls. Sacred Dates,
Times, Points in History. Overthrowing history.
Plus what's going on in Vancouver.
05 Feb. Some new jazz from JAMES MOODY
(and the GRUNT). Some new dance
from MARIE CHOUINARD (and an interview).
Some new ideas on architecture in Vancouver
(and abroad) — and much more —
12 Feb. The opera is alive and well in Vancouver. (So's Dionne Warwick). New
Dance:  The TROCKADEROS and the SFU
DANCERS. Plus: AIDS issues, Land Claims
issues, and DRUM HEAT!
79 Feb. TRANSFORMATIONS: The Gitk'san
continue to pursue their Land Claim.
A look at some of the Angles on the Issues. Plus;
The Entertainment Map of the City.
TRIBES AND SHADOWS
10:30-11:30 am
A program that explores "New Consciousness."
Dreams, myths, cultures and rituals all take context, bridging the gap between Dark and Light.
Featuring the innovative, the eclectic and the stirring diversities inherent in the musical fabric of
our world. Hosted by Kirby Hill.
05 Feb. Randy Rainne Reausch: New Compositions for DRUM HEAT III. (V.E.C.C
Feb. 11-13/88)
72 Feb.     While Drumheat shakes the V.E.C.C,
TAKEO YAMASHIRO performs
Shakuhachi magic in the studios
79 Feb.     More research into ABSTRACTIONS
in ARCHITECTURE, with particular
emphasis on the soul of this city. (Will New Music
emerge?).
26 Feb.    NEW CONTENT:  New releases at
CITR from Nonesuch, ECM, Crammed Disks, and others. EXPO '66
1:00-2:30 pm
What's happening to Expo '66. Its difficult to say.
A paint job, some nails, and lets get back to
lousiness.
72 Feb.     Love Love Love—Lovelines! Call in
and I'll hitch yp up with a happenin'
dude or babe.
79 Feb.     Live broadcast from the Soviet Union.
Can it be true? Probably not. Don't be
an idiot.
26 Feb.    If you don't like it, don't listen.
If you do like it, listen.
I like it, and when I don't you can tell, you know.
Write to Dean Paul Kennedy c/o CITR Traffic
Dept., 6138 SUB Boulevard, Vancouver, B.C. V6T
2A5, and I'll send you a picture of me shaving
in a car.
8 Feb.      What do you do Friday at 1:00? I'm on
the radio, you can listen. If you want
to call me, be polite I could take your eye out like
that.
NARDWUAR THE HUMAN
SERVIETTE PRESENTS...
2:30-3:00 pm
We aim to please, you, the listener out there in
Radio Land. How are you satisfied? Does Nardwuar have the right to judge character? No, only
you can decide what stimulates yourself.
However, Nardwuar can recommend two good
things: manhatten styled clam chowder and A
& W Mozza Burgers. Thank You, and have a nice
day.
72 Feb.     Ska Special.
26 Feb.    The Sonics, a profile of a wonderful
band.
THE WAY WE SEE IT
5:30-6:00 pm
Join the CITR News Staff as they discuss a week
of events and issues, causes and consequences.
Learn all there is to know about a world of happenings, as each reporter gives story details and
discusses its implications.
INTERFERENCE
6:00-9:00 pm
The choice of bankers everywhere. With your
host Gerald McBoingboing.
CRACK RHYTHM
9:00-midnight
A large, messy, enigmatically entertaining eve-
ing program, highlighting the hefty sounds of
exotic beats and the malicious chunk of modern
funk, with constant and current info on the Vancouver alternative music scene supplied by those
who should know. Hastily hosted by Robert Shea.
LOUIS LOUIS
Midnight-4 am
Spain beckons. .. it's almost time to go.
WEEKEND HIGHLIGHTS
SATURDAYS
THE SATURDAY EDGE
8:00 am-noon
Steve Edge continues to brave the early winter
mornings to present a biased view of the current
music scene, placing a particular emphasis on
the acoustic and roots aspects of the CITR
Spinlist and beyond. Yes, with the help of The
Beard and The bishop, The Edge presents a uni
que selection of the latest sounds from the U.K.'s
burgeoning alternative folk scene, there will also
be lots of exclusive recordings from The Rogue
Folk Club, as well as the latest releases, many
of which will have been "purloined" from local
record stores! (Nothing too illegal. Honestly.. .)
From 8 till 10, anything goes. From 10 till 11:30
it's "The Edge on Folk", with features on visiting
performers, and a look at the new releases. At
11:30 The Edge reads the U.K. soccer scores in
his own, inimitable fashion. The continuing series
of Compleat Monty Python, culled from the
original TV shows, takes place at around 11:45.
Scheduled features for the month are:
06 Feb.  Scotland's CAPERCAILLIE. A huge
success at last year's folk festival,
combining inspired Celtic instrumentals with
wondrous Gaelic songs.
13 Feb.  Ontario   singer/songwriter   Eileen
McGann. A fine voice, and feminist
songs with a sense of humour.
20 Feb.  Bob Brozman. Wizard of the National
Steel Guitar, and a walking
encyclopedia of North American music. Super
blues, jazz, Hawaiian and swing.
27 Feb.  Young English singer/songwriter Pete
Morton, from Manchester. "Most Promising Artist of 1986" according to readers of Britain's Folk Roots magazine. Here's your chance
to find out why. . . Also Jesse Winchester, well-
respected veteran of the North American scene.
POWER CHORD
Noon-3:00 pm
Vancouver's only true metal show, featuring the
underground alternative to mainstream metal:
local demo tapes, imports and other rarities, plus
album give-aways.
WE BE BOTANISTS
3:00-6:00 pm
I have this friend, well, more like an acquaintance, but, like, he ate 12 pizza dogs in half an
hour. I don't know what made him that hungry
but sometimes now I think he's different. Like,
he's never been the same, see?
page 621 — Grant's Life.
SATURDAY EVENING MAGAZINE
6:00-6:30 pm
Featuring news, sports, weather, Insight, Generic
Review, Today in History, Across the Atlantic.
KNOK TERNZ
9:00-midnight
The return of the Son of Final Vinyl at 11 pm
(sometimes). Feb. 13: Prelude to Valentine's.
"Pieces of me all over the floor"
— Paul C.
TUNES H' US
Midnight-4:00 am
The incredible music show from two uncredible
people. Join us for four hours of fun and foolishness. But mostly music!
SUNDAYS
MUSIC OF OUR TIME
8:00-Noon
Modern 20th Century classical music ranging
from the tonal to the avant-garde. Commentary
on the historical, technical and latest fashions
with regards to all genres. Requests taken. Your
host, Wolfgang J. Ehebald.
THE ROCKERS SHOW
Noon-3:00 pm
Reggae, Rock Steady and Ska. At 1:30, Reggae
Beat International Hour: news and interviews
about Reggae music worldwide. Host: George
Barrett.
BLUES BLUES BLUES
3:00-5:00 pm
Delta Blues, Post War Urban Blues, Boogie
Blues, Honky Tonk Blues, Rockabilly Blues,
Psychedelic Blues, Blues Rock, Punk Blues &
even that laid-back Contemporary Blues shit.
Hosted by Robert Zepeski or Lachlan Murray.
SOUL CITY
5:00-6:00 pm
The best in soul music from the '50s to the '80s:
R 'n' B, Southern Soul, Atlantic, Motown, Philly
International, plus the latest in Dance Floor Funk.
JUST LIKE WOMEN/
ELECTRONIC SMOKE SIGNALS
6:30-9:00 pm
07 Feb.     6:30-9:00 pm. JUST LIKE WOMEN.
Music, news and analysis by and for
women.
74 Feb.     6:30-9:00 pm. ELECTRONIC SMOKE
SIGNALS. Tune in for the latest news
and cultural
happenings in the indigenous and ecological
communities. Native Student Network Report at
8 pm.
27 Feb.     6:30-9:00 pm. JUST LIKE WOMEN.
Music, news and analysis by and for
women.
28 Feb.    6:30-9:00 pm. Tune in for a special
feaure on 'Glasnost„Perestrailia and
the Soviet
West: Culture, Ecology and Resistance Movements in Soviet Estonia". Native Student Network
Report at 8 p.m., featuring the latest on the struggle of native students in B.C. and across Canada.
SUNDAY MAGAZINE
6:00-6:30 pm
PLAYLOUD/THIS IS NOT A TEST
9:00 pm-Midnight
"Brother fights with brother They butcher each
others Daughters and sons incestuously mix
Man is a plaything of mighty whoredoms. An axe-
time, sword-time Shields shall be split A windage, a wolf-age Before the world ends".
TIBET
Aural demise by Larry Thiessen
SPORTS PROGRAM NOTES
The Lion's Den — Wed. 5:15 pm
Hosted by Neil Davis. Includes interviews and a
trivia contest with prizes.
The Edge on Soccer — Sat. 11:30 am.
British soccer results and exclusive reports on
Vancouver's 86ers and the new Canadian Soccer
League. Hosted by Steve Edge.
e- -e 0T(P0(%TU<NJS(T MWlIJTS'lO
(ABRIDGED VERSION)
"We  are  discreet  sheep;  we  wait to see how the drove is
going, and then go with the drove."
Opportunists of the world,
sit on the fence and take credit 1
This is your moment. You cannot
be denied. Your ambitions are
your reason to be. All else
follows. THE ENDS DO JUSTIFY THE
MEANS. Don't listen to
strangers. Patronize them.
Don't even try to understand.
Pretend. Be cunning. Be
careful. Be sly. Remember,
your only hope is that you are
being watched.
Elusiveness is the stuff of
dreams. Fit the public image.
THE CLOTHES DO MAKE THE MAN.
Wear a watch.  Wear underwear.
YOU ARE OUT TO MAKE AN
IMPRESSION! YOU ARE OUT TO MAKE
CONNECTIONS! Connections mean
power. Power is sex. Power is
money. Power is never having to
say you're sorry. Are you
willing to exploit the poor, the
weak, the feeble of mind? Isn't
this fun!
ALWAYS AVOID PEOPLE WHO:
- have less than money than
you - smoke standard cigarettes
- wear rubber - keep rodents for
pets
ALWAYS:
- appear to be having a good
time - call ahead for
reservations - send thank-you
cards (fruit  basket optional)
NEVER:
- ignore the wrong person
(crucial!) - eat standing up at a
buffet fundraiser - pick up
hitchikers - pick your nose in
public  -   scratch   in  public-
slouch in public - sleep in the
daytime - look at anyone on the
bus (crucial!)
NEVER ACTUALLY FALL IN LOVE OR
INVOLVE YOURSELF IN ANY KIND OF
INTIMATE PERSONAL RELATIONSHIP!
IF NECESSARY, FAKE IT.
ALWAYS:
- stand up straight - keep a
wide selection of sweaters-
appear genuine in your deep
spiritual search for the meaning
of life (CAUTION: TRUE
INTROSPECTION MUST BE AVOIDED AT
ALL COSTS. IT CAN LEAD TO
SELF-LOATHING WHICH IS THE
DEATH OF THE OPPORTUNISTIC
SPIRIT.)
ALWAYS:
- contribute to charity (but
never anonymously) - watch
"Moonlighting" - buy the first
round of drinks - plan your week
in advance.
THE SUCCESSFUL OPPORTUNIST:
appears to be
heterosexual but persues closet
bi- sexuality. He/she never
knows who he/she might have to
impress.
has no convictions,
moral, political or otherwise.
(CONVICTIONS ONLY STAND IN THE
WAY OF AMBITION.)
. . . avoids responsibility
at  all  costs.    (ALWAYS  LEAVE
DECISION MAKING TO SOMEONE ELSE.)
. . . always gets credit for
his accomplishments no matter how
trivial.
has no qualm with
taking credit for somebody else's
accomplishments.
REQUIRED READING:
- Megatrends - Your Erroneous
Zones - I'm Ok, You're Ok - Atlas
Shrugged - How to Pick Up Girls
SUGGESTED DISPLAY MATERIAL (not
to be read!):
- anything by Tolstoy,
Dostoyevsky, Gogol (or any other
dead Russian) - anything by
Freud, Jung, Kipling, Dickens,
Hemingway, Blake, Proust,
Burroughs, Kundera, Sheldon or
Robbins.
SUGGESTED ROLE MODELS:
Bill Van Der Zalm, Ed McMahon,
Albert Speer, Kurt Waldheim,
George Michael, Gary Hart, Andy
Warhol, Jane Fonda, Paul Weller,
John Lydon, Pia Zadora, George
Bush, Teddy Kennedy, Sylvester
Stallone, Liberace, Brian
Mulroney, Idi Amin, Neil Diamond,
Werner Erhard, Don Johnson, Robin
Leach, Chairman Mao, Klaus Von
Bulow, Imelda Marcos, Andy
Rooney, Madonna, Margaret
Trudeau, The Beastie Boys, Boy
George, Shirley MacLaine, anyone
who's famous,  most lawyers.
THE     SUCCESSFUL     OPPORTUNIST
IS   NICE.
\PTER      ptF-VeeW FEB 21
BOB BROZMAN
(MASTER OF THE STEEL GUITAR)
THE SAVOY NIGHTCLUB
POWELL
687-04 ffltf W7 \fH A''r\omsrlaas imsn 3H±ivnmunn^in\c\\
»Ob/LIOJJ    IWflV XII  ISSOWHOIVOSZlQNWljJUVZ)
I    ±ti  9J9 3HJL UOJ 9fWWd3ad3fc8n S3CH3H WOl31MrWM3W '"
cit)noa' idws
f
JI
B
1 ,r
pSSl
|SlN393y^