 D2 Jl S,'C,I o, R iD.IE \R
______ **____ »    * 1 __-mMM^m____I      *""" 1 -m*********
Li_A_d   iJLj,__±._
w.^iJl 2lc,£.r,JL -l^-iai.lL—
e, , JL 5    t & j,
JiJ^    -stLL   ILW [t, jn ^JilR^iE,
.MSi^K.iiJi ^1.0,5 ^ihje, .^igj>y«jf» j.  1ABOO
RIBAL WARE
piercings by Mike Bear Walsli
fully guaranteed, trained Ly Fakir Musatar
4 30    West   Pende
6   6   9   0   4   0   6
fa
crrPBr
Another 13 weeks of friendly
competition, jokes-for-beer
and amazing prizes starts up in
September. So dust off the
instruments and start annoying
the neighbours, 'coz CiTR is
now accepting demos for
Shincfig 93. You should be able
to play a 25-35 minute set of
original material... any style,
any genre.
Send your tape to: SHINDIG '93, c/o CiTR Radio,
#233-6138 SUB Blvd., Vancouver, B.C., V6T1Z1
Don't forget to include your contact names and numbers!
For more information, contact Justin or Linda at 822-3017.  CiTR   <££>
101.9 fM     77T; C/O 6138 SUB blvd.
Vancouver B.C.
V6T 1Z1
MI-JH-M.-
Normally, Paul our editor
writes the opening blurb to
"Airhead, " but he has disappeared as of about 3 am
this morning. He left to "go
to the store, " and so far
has not returned As a new
day dawns on the horizon,
we ask the creative minds
ofthe Discorder readership to write us and submit
your creative, wildandto-
tally fictitious accounts of
what has happened to the
noble soul that is Paul t.
Brooks, last seen wearing
a weary face with spectacles, t-shirt and jeans,
about 5'8", approx. 150
pounds. Personality traits
include a minor Flintstones
obsession (he's very fond
of Fred) and an
encylopedic and opinionated knowledge of late 20th
century popular music. As
with all escaped Discorder
editors, he is hungry, tired,
and will slag anyone mercilessly ifthreatend Keep
young children away! Approach with caution! Send
your submissions to:
Where the Hell is Paul?!
c/o Discorder Magazine
Rm. 233,6138 SUB Blvd.,
Vancouver B.C. V6T 1Z1
Oh yeah... Congrats to all the
i ofthe Shadowy Men
..   we'd print your
names, but thatwas supposed
to be Paul's job... sigh...
The Discorder Posse
6:11am, July 29/93
LET'S GO TO
FUCKIN* BRASILIAS
Hi,
my name is Adilson, i am a
jourmalism student and the
editor to a small newspaper/
fanzine (tabloid) in Brasil. I
heard about DISCORDER
and CITR FM and got very,
very interested in what you
do.
I would like to discuss
the possibilty of cooperation
concerning our activities.
First, i would like to be a
contributor to DISCORDER,
writing reports, reviews and
articles. At the same point, i
would like to hear from
Canadian same stuff to be
published here.
It is also important to
mention the possibilty of having tapes with brazilian alternative music regularly sent
to CITR FM. In exchange, i
would like to hear from musical stuff, things like HUM
BUZZ THING COMPILA
TION, promo stuff (t-shirts,
stickers, flyers...). Exchange articles, sounds
good foryou? Please, have
my name put in your mailing list.
In the near future, we
will also probably discussing how to distribute your
CDs and other stuff here
among some alternative
shops.
Hope to hear from you
very soon and to have a
sample of your work.
Adilson Pereire
PUNCH — c/o
Adilson Pereira
Caixa Postal 28517
Rio de Janeiro — RJ
21832-970
Brasil
Dear Friends:
We would like to inform
you that the Gibiteca of
Curitiba (Comic Strip Library) is organizing the
THIRD INTERNATIONAL FANZINE EXHIBITION, to be held on
the first, second and third
of July, as well as a fanzine
get-together.
There will also be concerts with bands from
Curitiba, as well as talks,
sales and exchange of
fanzines and showings of
alternative videos. 'With a
view to this, we need your
help by sending us your
fanzines, and by giving us
the honour of your presence at our exhibition.
We also ask you to
confirm your attendance
and send us your fanzines,
no later than 30th June, to
Monica at Rua Carlos
Cavalcanti, 533, CEP
80020-280, tel: (041) 322-
1525, r, 250, Curitiba, PR,
Brazil.
Thanking you in advance for your collaboration,
yours sincerely,
Alice Ruiz
President
AnaCristinade Castro
Cultural Events Direc
Curitiba,PR, Brazi
This yUGQSLAV/Art RECORD LABEL JS LOOUfo FOR MORE JAPMFSE L^
HARD COREPUHKTHRASH BANDS TO SEA/Dl'N RECORDED MATERIAL FOR-
rJ£-u?f tecow* CD PRDDBCTS!?R€FeRA6LW0RERDU7JC/HL)'/NF- SAMS'!
mjmjoo^ N.T.r.BWj'nto-Nil&da Vt&/Compilation L-P vdk: DEAD/PEAS.
•_____€; BMiNSVDRM UXQU(t QVl&DQSB\+MANY MORE W CffO. ***■ pp) "
MjN mFmU(N£xr)lM5/v,.r-T-B.k/.}(lrdinstorm,+8M?te Q£ Disarm
usi'c • Goes Vzl£e\/A nji, -iioioZemu^/Beoqrod^uovsl^/A
WHAT YEAR IS IT,
ANYWAY?
Discorder,
I have been trying to find
The address of the manager/
promoter of The Grateful
__£___.
Could you help me? I have
some Art work to submit.
Thank you
David Burggnaf
Gibsons, B.C.
This one is out of our league.
Try directing your question
to Relix Magazine, P. O. Box
94, Brooklyn, NY 11229
U.S.A., they should be able
to set you on the right path.
,  Discorder,
Hello!   My  name  is
I  Rune Nilsen and I'm a 21
1  years old boy from Norway.
I was wordering about DIS -
i  CORDER still exist. If it
!  does, I would like to check it
1  out. Please let me know.
Rune Nilsen
Rugdeun25 IA
4626 Kr. Sand. S.
Norway
BONA DRAG, MAN
Dear Airhead and especially Tom & Kim,
I am writting afterread-
er the letters from 'Lucifer"
and D.J. Jansen, and your
response in the July issue of
Discorder. I agree completely with what you had to say
and I would just like to add
that it might help to lose
your ego when you decide
to start publishing a zine.
That way there is nothing
for anyone to hurt.
I guess I would also take
this opportunity to thank-
you for reviewing issue #
one of "Glumorous Glue"
in the June issue. So far this
has been the only response
from anyone in Vancouver.
I guess there's not as many
fans of "feminine boy stuff"
here as I thought. Am I the
only person in the lower
mainland in touch with the
Morrissey fanzine network
(at least 20 zines and more
starting all the time)? Oh
well, issue two will be out
by the end of July, I'll send
you a copy.
So gone,
Mr. Shawn
POBox 41023
2529 Shaughnessy St.
Port Coquidam, BC
V3C3GO
Dear "Discorder" Magazine,
Please send me a subscription to your wonderful
magazine. Enclosed is a
cheque for $15.00 dollars
for 12 months. If there are
any problems, let me know.
Charles Murray *
6 James Apt.#5
Lennoxville, Quebec
J1M1Y6
Dear Discorder,
Here is some hard
earned cash for a discorder
mag. subscription. I find this
magazine very informative
for live gig listings, reviews,
and keeping in touch with
the west coast scene. Please
sign me up and my mailing
address is below.
Francis Tetrault
1502- 10030-114 St.
Edmonton, Alberta
T5K 1R3
Dear Airhead,
Facts about Cub:
THEY SUCK!!! and your
incestuous - (you know it's
true) propaganda machine
can't convince me other-
Yours Sincerely,
Wendy Young
Vancouver
CITR Radio,
I kindly request your
station' s help in completing
a personal project of mine.
I am attempting to collect bumper and-or window
stickers from university radio stations across Canada.
While I also collect stickers
from commercial stations, I
specialize in campus radio.
If stickers are not available, a letterhead, business
card or anything with a station logo will do.
Should stickers be
available, I respectfully ask
for three of them, but even
one would be great.
I have done music
shows on Ryerson radio
(CREM), Radio Sheridan
(CORS)and McMaster Radio (CFMU).
A stamped, self-addressed envelope is enclosed
for your convenience.
Thankyouforyourtime
and consideration.
Dale Patterson
259 White Pines Dr.
Burlington, Ontario
L4L4E9
Dear EI Cadaver,
It's about your ir
your house and cook a meal
for you naked...I have to
decline on the grounds that
my toes are just massive
and I never take off my
socks. I don't go out much
any way, since I' ve been battling this Spam addiction. I
prefer to collect stray cats.
I
Dear Airhead,
Adults: Are they evil
psychopaths bent on world
destructions?
I'm 16. This makes me
a teenager. I'm not a Muppet Baby nor am I Little
Archie. I, like other people
vee   "0t
from ofitke l/em/t Pizzas/
1152 Denman 689-1112
6 __3-^°£G3i_ are trying to rid evil threats
to our "peaceful well-being
society." Threats to our
"peaceful molesters, police,
teachers, governments, religions, drug dealers, al-
choholics, censors, killers
and, power. The power to
control what we dress, look,
eat, shave, feel, do, consider, judge, opionate, buy, our
morals and actions. Memorizing twelve years of
bullshit perfectly to memorize more (but pay for it) so
we can get ourselves a nice
well-payed job so we can
buy ourselves luxuries. You
told us luxuries made us
happy. The happiest house
it the most expensive house.
We poor uninfluenced teenagers are thrown into this
messed up world so you
adults can teach us what you
were taught. Learning that
this Bud's for you. For you
to forget that you' re failing
school and have no futur in
society. Who wants to get a
job when you can pop over
to Tood's house and get
yourself free CD's and a
free mountain bike. Cheers
big ears!
JennFonseca
Dear Discorder:
Hello and thank you for
sending me the latest Discorder issue.  At the time
when the sanctions are on
(against Srbij a/Yugoslavia)
you are still keeping on send-
ing me Discorder mag/
newspaper. Thank you as
you are the only nespaper
magazine that is sending me
regularly informations/issues/. For instacnce MRR
stoped sending me free copies last year, 92, June, ever
since then I had no chance
to read MRR, I just stuck at
one point and that was all.
But thankfully to CITR I
kept on being informed on
things around world. This
letter is to mainly say thank
you very much for keeping
sending intermusic your
newspaper. This  letter is
here to tell you/offer/any
help I can give to your news -
paper. Scene report? Band
info? Anything else? Let me
know if you need anything
of that or other I will be
pleased to help CITR newspaper.
What are the advertizing rates now? Which sizes
areavailable?Letme know
Youth Brigade interview was good so was Neg-
I wrote to Zulu Records
asking about distributing my
comp LP I hope they' 11 an-
Thats all if you need
(again)  anything  I  men
tioned above or other (anything else) let us know we
will help.
Regards
Gvido Obradovic
Intermusic
GoceDelceva 11/1
11080Zemun,
Beograd
Yugoslavia
Perhaps we should be sending bundles o/Discorders to
"the former Yugoslavia"
instead of peacekeepers...
take note ofthe flyer Gvido
included with his letter (re-
producedat bottom left, facing page)... he might be interested in hearing from
some Canadians too.
__________ _. i____ _P%    a       *a _»    * _#"*        •      j*.     i   *m
BUT MY NAME" IS
^HE SA.ME PBOPLL
WHO RcM^MBER
AMD WH^hoHDOF
NAME IS "CHIPPY"?
why mot call youwar
K MocoLAT-! CHiPMi/rVK"
\f /od w/imt thefolks
VMM.., r see you P
(pOlKJT, SHINY. FRoM
NoWoNj,X'M
AOOLPH cmpMNKl
AUGUST 0 the only alternative nightclub is BACK!
Yes! Its true we re back!
The first shows will be:
FRIDAY. AUGUST 13TH
BUM from Victoria
' plus superstars
ZUMPANO
(with ox-Grape, Kevin Kane)
and special guests TBA
SATURDAY. AUGUST 14TH
Double Headliner!!!
ART BERGMAN
© (COPYRIGHT)
Two more shows to rock you:
AUGUST 20TH and 21ST
LOOK FOR POSTERS!
As of SEPTEMBER 1 ST We'll be open
every Friday and Saturday night
DOORS AT 10:30; SHOW AT 11:15
A Goodboy/Kifty Palace Production
More Information at 254-3344
Sorry. No Minors
ITKB B®@[rt
BMP®e»[p_
Vancouver's
Largest Selection
of Almost New and Used
Paperbacks and
Magazine Back Issues
Large Range of
Hard Cover Books
Thousands of New and
Collector's Comics
We Buy, Sell or Trade
1247 Granville near Davie
682-3019
3347 Kingsway
430-3003
Open 7 Days a Week
FEATURING...
VV-v^.f'Ov
^©VERSlOt*"10
SSSkksL
K \
■»*«_l
SUB__ '      ALL AGES WELCOME! By A..O. Chapman
It was around ten thirty AM in West Side Vancouver. I was on my way to my dentist's
office which was conveniently only about 6 blocks away. As I made my way leisurely
down the street on this fair moming I noticed a magazine lying in the middle ofthe road.
Usually I'm unmoved by trash and road garbage, but this item of litter glowed with the
appearance that it needed closer examination. There was little traffic out this morning
and the street itself I had known for years as a quiet one. I strolled out into the street to
get a better look at the magazine. Shocked and stunned it became obvious to me by its
splayed pages that it was askin mag. Apornopublication. Aqui in quarterly. ()r, in simple
terms and probably what the publisher calls it on his tax form, "Adult entertainment."
From its crinkled and tattered pages it had the look that it had been run over by
a couple of passing cars and as if it had been rained on. Some of its pages were gone,
including the cover page, but it didn't need one. This bit of literature spoke for itself. It
wasn' t Playboy or one of the softer top-shelf magazines that are available to the consumer
either, this was one of the more racier, lewd and indecent forms of published smut on the
market.
Looking at it alone, in the middle ofthe street, made me hark back to a time when
I was just a wee lad. This kid I went to school with lived up in Shaughnessy with his
wealthy family and sometimes after school I'd go over to his house to watch cartoons,
torment his younger sister, or just avoid going home. Usually his mother was home but
one day it was just the two of us and he told me that his Dad had a dirty magazine
collection up in his closet. Now, while we were years before the recognized age of what
the scientists and sociologists call puberty, we knew the score and I figured this would
be one of those need to know situations. "Let's see 'em," I said.
We went up to his parent's bedroom, opened up the bedroom closet, and he pulled
out a stack of Playboy magazines. I never asked how he found them Maybe he was
looking for hidden away Christmas presents one year, maybe he was just casing tbe joint,
as it were, when his parents weren't home. We leafed through them and had a good laugh
at his father's expense. Years later his father would become a high-ranking member of
the Social Credit government in the late 1980's. I can remember watching the news at
home and seeing him act so civil and political in news conferences, but I could picture
him at home, spread-eagled across his bed, pulling his pud Uke a drunken gorilla.
But it's one thing to find your friend's Dad's or your own fathers Playboy
magazine collection: it's a safer choice. If you ever approached him about it he could pass
it off as "artistic interest in the female form" or something wishy-washy Uke that. It's
another scenario completely to having him explain why he has a tucked away collection
of magazines Uke Swank, Hustlers or Mass Orgies in his possession—the kind of
magazine that I now had in my hands.
This was an uptight, west side neighbourhood, deep in the heart of Kerrisdale.
The Florida of Vancouver; where the old people die and nobody notices. But here it was,
a beacon of photographic vulgarity lying in the open sun in the middle ofthe road. Li ving
in Kerrisdale is Uke Uving in a small, rich town but it has its other side too. You can stroll
the streets after dark and as you walk by the houses hear the alcoholic husbands beat then-
wives, children scream from the trees and people screech their cars down the long
straightaway streets coming from somewhere and bringing the trouble with them. How
did the magazine end up here? Perhaps the previous owner had been driving and
masturbating at the same time, and upon reaching a frenzied climax in his erotic delirium
the magazine flew from his hands onto the road. Ashamed and too scared to go back for
it he roared off into the night with his sperm-slackened, Uterally white-knuckled hand-
gripping the steering wheel? But this was not the question for me to ask. Nor why fate
brought this magazine and I together. As I looked around to see what to do with it, well,
not what to do with it but where to put it, I noticed a kid's treehouse in the backyard of
a house across the street.
I strolled with perfect nonchalance across the street, casually looking around to
see if I was being watched as I looked over the fence which surrounded the property. It
didn't sound like anybody was home and I couldn't see anybody in the windows.
Secondly, I Ustened to see if any youngsters happened to be in the treehouse.
Nobody.
Now all treehouses have that one window; not a glass window, just an open
orifice to look out from. And U ke all treehouses they are never as high up as they should
be, so it made it pretty easy, after carefully weighing the porno mag in my hand, to frisbee
it up and through the window of the treehouse. It was a beautiful scene and I would have
loved to see it in slow motion: the way the pages flew apart and rattled in the air like a
lame bird, and how it flapped and scored Uke the winning basket as it went through the
treehouse window. It was majestic. In a way, I felt Uke the Wright Brothers must have
felt.
I turned up my collar and walked briskly to my dentist appointment, arriving right
on time. And as I sat comfortably in the dentist's chair, as he went to work on my lengthy
root canal, I thought about that magazine in the treehouse. It made me feel good to set
a kid straight like that, and in many ways I felt Uke a good citizen of the community.
When I came across magazines Uke that when I was young, finding them in similar
circumstances as the one I found that day, I saw it on a metaphysical level. The first one
I came across I thought to myself, holding its flimsy pages, that this was not the only one
in the world Uke it. There was a big factory somewhere, a huge printing press, that made
millions of these. I looked at the women in them and thought, "This is somebody's
daughter. How did they get here? There are people who probably make a Uving making these magazines'.*" 1 thought of the photographers. 1 wondered where the pictures were taicen. In short, my mind was opened to a whole
new world that I never knew existed. But I was a pretty smart kid—too philosophical for my age—and maybe every kid shouldn' t be expected to see it the same way I did. Even so, I think I did exactly the right thing that day.
It's not my fault if the kid who owns that treehouse turns out to be a goody-goody and turns that magazine over to his parents. Don't get me wrong, I'm not into corrupting children. I don't hang out in parks wearing an overcoat
asking kids if they want to come back to my place and get drunk on wine-gums.
But as I sat there having my root canal, looking up into the bright light shining down on me, I thought that maybe when the kid goes up there next time he's going to find that porno magazine and think God sent it down?
Maybe he'll call up all his friends and be the hero ofthe neighbourhood for possessing this forbidden fruit. Some kids have some pretty strange ideas about sexuality. And why not? All that birds and bees nonsense. It's the
parent's fault for feeding them Ues about how the stork brings children to a family to avoid the embarrassment of the cold, hard reaUty of two bodies humping in a creaking bed.
Nope, I gave this kid the straight goods. The real deal. Some people that I've already told this story to got pretty upset. Jaws dropped and they accused me of planting the seeds of perversity in that anonymous youngster.
To hell with that. We give children too little credit and consider them possessing too short a bandwidth to recognise stuff for what it is. I wouldn't go so far as to state that I taught that kid anything about romance, no way. By
the look of some of the stuff in that magazine nothing could be further from it He'll learn romance Uke everybody else: feebly quoting Unes from movies to his first girlfriend who'll dump him for some jackass, after which
he'll sulk and write poetry to her and embarrass himself in front of his buddies and get played like a fiddle at the Annual Sap's Convention. Or maybe he'll leam it all from his brother's Bon Jovi records, drown his sorrows
in Pilsner beer at truck and tractor pulls, and turn out to be a real shmuck. But that's completely up to him. I diverted that kids stream 180 degrees without anybody's permission. I opened up a door that can't be closed and,
goddamnit, I feel good about it Maybe he'll turn out right and desire what the real people in this world want: "To sleep late, have fun, get wild, and stomp on the earth with nothing in mind except falling in love and not getting
arrested..."
THE REAL DEAL
AUGUST Q Records & Stuff We Sell:
85. SLANT 6 3-Song7"   ®
84. HOLY ROLLERS 2-Songr   ®
83. SCREAM 'Fumble'(Final Studio Session)* ©
82. SCREAM 'Fumble'+ 'Banging the Drum' ©
81. SCREEAM 'Still Screaming' + This Side Up' ©
79.   CIRCUS LUPUS Solid Brass" ©
78.   LUNGFISH 'Rainbows from Atoms'•* ©
77. JAWBOX 2-Song 7"    ®
76. SHUDDER TO THINK 2-Song 7" ®
75. HIGH-BACK CHAIRS «««ep- ®
74. HIGH-BACK CHAIRS 2-Song7" ®
73. CIRCUS LUPUS 2-Song7"   ®
72.   SEVERIN        'Acid to Ashes + Rust to Dust'f ©
71. NATION OF ULYSSES -*.*_,...■» ©
70.   FUGAZI 'In On the Kill Taker'«• ©
Price Guide, including postage, in U.S. $:
.  | <-  A              SURFACE
U.J--V          & CANADA
Airmail
®    7"              3.00        4.00
6.00
®    12" EP       6.00        8.00
11.00
©    LP             7.00        9.00
12.00
©    CD           8.00        9.00
11.00
©    MaxiCD
10.00      11.00
13.00
mp or an IRC.
:.20007
please send one US S or
4 US stamps or 4 IRCs
ESsSI H5
3819 BEECHER ST. NW, WASH..D.
CelGk>rcMtin<
-■•i_)M..-i,M-i;
iContrabandistas De Rock & Roll!
"IN THE HALL OF FAME"
Brand-new 20-track album CD. 10 brand-new ones exclusive to this disc, five
from "Atlanta Whiskey Flats" and five from "At Marineland". Features the hits
"Your Mom's The Devil" and "Bourbon '92" plus 18 more!
"WET PANTS CLUB"
8 brand new tracks exclusive to this mini LP on Spanish vinyl. Features the hits
"Luau!" and" Mach 1" plus six morel
"AT GERMANY"
Two-song 7" on Germany's Screaming Apple Records.
"ATLANTA WHISKEY FLATS"
The 12-song , critically-acclaimed "amazing" second LP. Rolling Sfone called it
"12 songs of brilliant bang-up guitar rumble". Features the hits "Shakedown" and
"Flying Buttress of Love".
"AT MARINELAND"
First LP on 10" vinyl is still SOLD OUT!!!
"UP AND DOWN"
The debut 7". Only a few copies of the re-issue left!.
AVAILABLE IN VANCOUVER AT SCRATCH, BLAST, TRACK, ZULU AND SAMS AND EVERYWHERE ELSE THROUGH CARGO
or write THE SMUGGLERS, 2874 BELLEVUE AVE., WEST VANCOUVER, B.C. V7V1E8
Catch the Smugglers & cub live Sat. August 21 at the Hastings Community Centre! All-Ages
fy*
:m-
*4r f\ T
\§Wf   THE. BIG    ^H
W'-l
)/
He   deal is    w
Ti
.//
mm   that you   v
m
OB     /WO   EVERY-    ■
[    ^_3
■I  -twwg yocV£ I
HI   EfEK KNOWN  1
™I
llll    w/i-L 500A/     1
IWA c_r/*s_: ra    /I
M__A   exist/    AjJ
Wy^\
•**-**? v—*~]
W\
<i
Wl
"fi
■ ■■
ft   /^5%
a/N
^->
t
AUGUST © wcm-m- C^fCfPT
you're done you gottaonce more." Thatciedowas him as quick as you cw ad get your us up lo _c
gang lo be the death of hun, one way or Ihe other, bridge, we're short oo crew md well be docking
and that credo is the reason a yoa; cadet Sk in momenur
himself got so far so quickly. A weathered w*ra
dispute aid pot ntial for danger tamed grey a hair, Speedo could fed his scalp posting up greys as be
etched a wrinkle inlo his foiehead ad, whether or
not he scored Ihe respect of his understudies, he
knew he was fitting more and more into the "prick"
mold everyone had him pegged in. And although he
always wore an emotional eio-skdeton, he had a
validconcemfor the wetfare ofhu crew: hisfaniry.
ND, the ship's physician, a genius in his
fieldandrecogii^foritwilbaNobd|mE,joined ea_," invited Ihe malimnrished bul wdl-vqaed
the Rocket From The Qypt after the fane, Ihe     food Htoior-isb duncter perched atop a ce-
DNA displacement sabre at the throat of tht unsuspecting local. "San Diego stands alone," he
emphasned through grided teeth and a patriotic
look of death in his eyes.
I prescribe lhal yon bolster
or weapon, immediately," said Speedo in a
"Ditch digger, ditch thggeis, lend me yoa
wealth, Ihe women and the c
much. A Doogie llowser-ish prodigy, ND pioneered the theory that "all punk rockers must die at
2-..the same gos for riff rockers but they dont die
they just stat to suckkkk...". Indeed, a youig,
naive and almost too obvious theory, ba one that
eluded the old-school train of thought for B-len
Be side lis past track record and pan pous,
materialistic weaknesses ("Yeah, I drive a forrign
car, Ihe mileage says I can't go fu."), ND is as
reliable as they come. His youthfulness brings a
unmatched quality of rivalry to the dip, despite
the f_t that he's a sore loser and locks hke hell in
spadex bicycle shorts andcowboy boots—i wad-
robe flaw (or guilty pleasure?) that Ik rest d tk
crew find too embarrassing to hing to his atten-
"llcy.isn'tthal San Diego- enthuses Petey
X, pulbng himself away from Ik 28th world in
SuperMarioland for a glimpse oul tk port window
at tk blue-grey marble thai is Earth A fleeting
thought; much like all of his thoughts ales Iky
involve a way out of this damn mission and off of
this damn craft Tk Rocket Fran Tk Crypt's
Commander, Petey is a procedure man -rough and
through if only in tk sense thai k ca dford to
sloth about and sit behind Ik gold-embroidered
bars adorning his jacket because k worked »
damn hard lo get where k is today.
"Okay, where was IT k rktoricdly mumbles to himself as k shifts in his custom-made,
CorinthianteatkrLay-Z-Boyrecliner. Petey doea't
hide Ik facl that he is stuck in this Sne of work-
experienced and intelligent enough to do what k
does bul lacking tk sheep-skin on Ik wal: tk by
to an early retirement and enjoying a pension by
golfing out on tk links. He'll never hve down Sis
"School ain't shit, I read it ma book" valetklonan
Atom, on Ik other hand, is young, anbi-
tious, over-anxious and a rookie. Sady, tk only
thing that keeps Corporal Atom from king a top-
notch caifclis his exuberance. Like abd in acandy
store, Atom has a hard lime defining ad distinguishing tk thrill of Ik journey from Ik agenda.
Bul king a spindly, scrawny, Irown-nosing keener
still searching for his space-legs it's hard not to
sympathize for him. lie graduated at tk top of his
I class from flight school but nc
could prepare him for Ik n
ttaumaof being thrown into space for a year with
three men who would hve, breath, sleep, work and
eat tk 86,000 seconds of each (by together.
"1 wanl my mommy. ft» poo diaper. Poo
Jehu. Fart Nasty nun touched ny private- Mom
my! Daddy make pee pee in Ik backyard khindtk
' woodshed. He's tk nasty man who loockd my
private place. Milk, I wat my milky bottle." Atom
had finally lost it, as expected. His on had been
pulled out of tk water, so to sptak, and k couldn't
have picked a worse hme to do so: tk Rocket From
Tk Crypt's mysterious destination hlipped onto tk
"Get this man to sick hy, pronto!" onfeied
Speedo. "ND?! ND!" bellowed tk Captain owr Ik
intercom, "We gotla nun comin' down. Take care of
il was a mighty scepter. "Ditch digger, ditch diggers, dap me some skin, leprosy's fine so kt Ik
planet and you have no righl to draw your weapon,
no mailer kw much offense you lake to other's
opinions. Now Commander!" Petey X lowered his
weapon but his eyes and temper stayed fixed "I
must apologize for my Commander, sir, we've all
been involved in a very hying mission but that is
no excuse for his behavior. Please accept my
"Your violent ways may gel you what you
wal in Sa Diego bul we play with a whole
differed set of rules here. You're fortunate that
oddmes begin." And wilh tk conclusion to his
tied tk pigeons from their roosts rose from Ik
attentive c_is_ner_ Captivated by Ik wisdom
ad power of this king to Ik derckls.tk Rocket
From Tk Crypt crew were anxious for answers to
unding Ihis man:
"Old wanan," spoke Speedo.
"Man!" spired Ik androgenic and forlorn (Sifter with a undctstandable amount cf
Tm sony, sir, but who is this man who
speaks to tk masses Bk a propktT asked Speedo behind Us embarrassment, gesturing to tk
icon perched above tk heads of tk crowd
"You must k from anotkr planet,"
"Why, yes, we ■__" boasted Petey.
"My poor friend, you Canucks are so mi
"We're from Sa Diego, asshole," replied
Petey defensively. And kfore another word was
-Xhadhis
I'm going to spare you Ik ways of our cuslans
and tk death of your Commander but I suggest
you make your visit here brief. Tk nun that you
inquire about is named Apollo. Be careful whal
you say k's a shy boy." And wilh that enigmatic
instruction tk old ma dipped ido tk crowd like
"Hey, you with Ik funny haircut, I klcha
paid a lotta money for that," Muted Commander
Petey in a impudent attempt to gel Apollo's
altendon. And attention it did get by Apollo and
every other soul within ea__ot of lis sacrilegious
remark. A hush so gigantic and frightening fell
like a down blanket over Ik crowd and crew. All
eyes were riveted to tk man whose mouth had
transcended his 1Q in tk short time lhat tk
Rocket From Tk Crypt had stationed.
"You, young ma, should show more respect to Ik person wk saved your patkdc life,"
said Apollo, pointing his scepter at Petey X as k
descended fk concrete podium. Throwing glances from ND to Speedo, looking for that certainty in
12 E_£j£_2-S-3__-a his comrades, fttey retreated from tk intimidating figure of Apollo until his Captain spoke ad
refocussed Apollo's rage:
"What do you mean wkn you say you
'saved' his life?" questioned Speedo.
"Are you thai daft lhat you have no idea of
what I'm talking about?" asked Apollo Ik three
men exchanging clueless glances ad shrugging
in—"You don't do
your
"I'm sorry, sir, I don't Our mission, thus
fa, has been exemplary, bd fer some sickness
experienced by our Corporal ad a simple matter
of our changing couse which brought us here,"
explained Speedo, obviously proud of his crew
ad their accomplishments.
"Thai is exactly what I speak of," declaed
Apollo "Your changing of course was due entire -
ly to me and this instrument" Tk Rocket From
Tk Crypt crew looked al each otkr in puzzlement ad wonder al what power tk scepter and
Apollo possessed: brass-coloured and phallic, resembling a squashed letter J, Ik contours of tk
instrumed were defined by bold lines and a soft,
almost minor-like. buff. Tk instrument was enchanting-id seductive ad hai a large opening to
tk opposite end of Ik one which was blown upon.
Apollo demonstrated tk manipulation of tk instrument by holding tk scepter to lis lips ad
exhaling a breath so mighty lhal it chilled tk air
with eddies of sound. Tk deep and tempestuous
groan which was expelled swirled aboul and enraptured tk crew like a angel's whisper could,
leaving Ik men of tk Rocket From Tk Crypt ill-
surprised when people all around tkm withdrew
from their upright stance to crouched knees ad
bowed heals. Tky were praying. "I'm a divinity
on this planet," offered Apollo humbly.
"I'm impressed," responded ND, secretly
longing for his own magical scepter which k
would probably employ lo kip him pick up chicks.
"I'm not," announced Petey. "Anyone with
a hit of charisma and intelligence ca k a cult
leader. I'm not buying it."
Tm not asking you to buy anything Tk
simple fact of tk mailer is that with tk power ad
knowledge to use this tool, ad tk sense lhat your
vessel was is absolute danger of a eradicating
collision with tk moon of Courtney, I summoned
you off course ad onto a safer route" Disbelief
hung thick in tk air as Speedo, ND ad Petey
looked for some rhyme or reason in Apollo's
explaation Eyebrows rose; eyes rolled back.
"Enough with Ik questions, I've pd it
into layman's terms already. Now bow aboul you
three answer a few questions for mer asked
Apollo with more demand in his voice than query.
"My pleasure, Apollo, you've been more
than cooperative towards us, even Ikugh my
Commander's ignorance and rudeness is inexcusable. If you've saved our Sves like you claim I'm
sure Ik least we ca do is accommodate a few of
lion. May a ma perished trying to unlock tk
mysteries that dwell upon Disco," apprised Speedo
"So whal separates you from a band Sk
Helmet wk were enSsted to do tk same thing?"
pryed ApoUo.
"One
guitars and a kick ass lawyer," said tk Captain wilh
a heir of pretention.
"Seems like a small price to pay to save
rock n roll," voiced Apollc
enthusiasm. "Nonetheless, you gendemen should
your questions," obliged Captain Speedo.
This mission that you speak of, what is
tk agenda for it?" inquired Apollo.
"Well, simply, we were contracted by
Inlerscope for 1.3 million dollars to save rock n
roll We're nine mondis into a one-year program
and before we abandoned our course, bringing us
here, we were en route to our final and mosl
abstruse destination: tk planet Grunge," declared
Speedo with some uncertainly in his tone.
"I sense fear. Do you have some reservations about completing your mission? Does a visit
to this planet Grange frighten your pressed Apollo.
ND, Petey ad Speedo looked at each
other fully realizing Ik weight of this understatement Snickering aside, ND proclaimed "Grange
has been tk single most cause of death in medical
and musical history since Ik Black Plague. More
recently, actually in Ik '70s, there was greal fear
"Listen, I'm not Kresltin ad I'm nol claiming to
k a psychic. I ca't knd spoons with my roind
and I ca't tell you who's going to win tk Wodd
Series, butldoknowthatevery3 years Courtney's
orbital velocity increases ten-fold as it emerges
from a bSck kle on her course. Our circumlunar
radar equipment read your vessel's position as
directly above that black hole; had you failed to
receive Ik signal or foBow its pulse your mission
would not only be complete but you would all k
ad concern for tk perilous toxins in tk atmosphere of Disco, kt that planet has since been
quarantined ad only a fool would forsake his life
to pass within a tight year of it"
"An intensive amount of researc h has gone
into this mission to assure our safety tat no monetary figure can banish fear or erase tk nightmares thai Ikse men kve of tew Iheir colleagues
died on a planet likened to tk one we're scheduled
to visit; Grange, unfortunately, seems to kve a
very similar almospkre ad geological composi-
k proud of yourself. Undertaking such a meaningful and arduous task with such earnestness is inspiring. I only wish I could te of son
A silence filled the air as tk Rocket men
scratched their heads and chins. Dumb
founded Iky pondered; blankly tky
Ik inventory of Iheir minds; perplexedly Iky came
up clueless. Until Speedo suggested: "Well," wilh
a Sttk: hesitation, "why don'l you join our mission?" Tk lightbulb over lis head glowed rafiat-
Indecision ad uncertainty
ad reflected in tk eyes ad on tk wrinkled foreheads of tk huddled men Set back by Ik invitation, tk commonly confident Apollo was left fum-
bling for words ad a decision like a fidgety child
"BuL."statedApolk>kforeSpee(locotl_- abrupt
"Now don't k too hasty with your decision. Our crew could use a ma Sk you, if in Ik
least in our public relations," Speed) quipped while
swiping a glance at a unaraused Petey. "Your
d k valuable assets to Ik Rocket From Tk Qypt We'll
have to do somelhing about your appearance but
beyond that I think thai you would k a welcome
addition to tk crew. Tk pay's okay, we set our
own hours, ttere's health and dental benefits all
around, and we get lo say bad words, 'cuz punk
rockers say bad words." This pleased ApoUo immensely; he grinned in appreciation as tk proverbial pot sweetened. "But il's not all fame and
fortune, timos ad chicks, 4-star hotels and mammoth, Va Halen-type ryders. It requires a lot of
hardwork.determinati on, motivation andwillpower
on your part Tk schedule we keep ca often times
k gruelfing tat I ca'l see a man of your physical
health budding under tk pressure...well?"
"WelL that's exactly whal you said about
Atom, Captain," spok ND sarcastically, "and now
k's back in sick bay strapped lo a rubber gurney."
"1 appreciate your medical interpretation of
the situation, ND, tat even you were suspicious of
Corporal Atom's mental and physical condition
upon joining Ik mission,
il lo Apollo just lo offer him this opportunity,
Speedo said sympatktically.
TS
"Whaddya call that scepter-thing,
ayways?" inquired Petey as red-brown soil
of Ik planet flicked off of their heels on tk short
walk back to tte RocteL
"Oh, this?" asked Apollo rhetorically. "I
Hk to call it..a saxophone."
lo be continued... GRACELAND
1250      RICHARDS      STREET
C^^&ueidcuf,
PHAT GROOVE
WITH
D.J. CZECH
ALLEY ENTRANCE
REGGAE NIGHT
WITH
D.J. GEORGE BARRETT
BACK TO BASSIX
WITH
T - BONE
ALLEY ENTRANCE
_-____________---.
WILD CHERRY
WITH
DJ. CZECH
 jSattweUuf.
NOAHS ARC
WITH
DJ. NOAH
CALL FOR SPECIAL EVENT INFORMATION 688-2648
Tuesday August 24
The Commodore
DOORS • 8:00 P.M.
E^fH C   R   Tickets available at Trade, Scratch & Boom record stores,
I cm mr  «■■ TICKETMASTER outlets or Charge By Phone 280-4444
AT ZULU, TRACK, AND BOOM CD'S OR BY MAIL FROM INTERNATIONAL
gooa n*w. Pr«_« ___ ___.iu___ good nem praise liim halleluliah COOD NEWS!!!   I
FREE SNOT OF JESUS
BOOGERS OF OUR LORD & MESSIAH
SCIENTIFIC FACT! £k BIBLICAL PROOF!
JESUS   ,Ji8]L. LORD OF
"CHRISr'l&mt   LORDS!     H
SCIENCE PROVEN! SCRIPTURAL PROOF!
SEND FIVE DOLLAR LOVE GIFT TO
INTERNATIONAL SECULAR ATAVISM
IN CANADA: P.O. BOX 1776 STN."A" VANCOUVER, B.C. V6C-2P7
IN USA.: P.O. BOX 69243, PORTLAND,  OREGON, 97201
j SCIENTIFIC FACT! SCEENTERRRIFFIC FACT!!! SCIENCE F
FOR FREE STICKERS OF THIS AD SEND A S.A.S.E. Despite being delayed en route
to our fair city, Cop Shoot Cop
arrived in fine form to put on a
blistering display of harmo-
Yours truly was able
to wring a few words
from the weary wandering minstrels after the show. Due to
circumstances, the interview was shared
wilh a representative
from the Bellinghar
fanzine, Throwrug.
Cop Shoot Cop are:
Tod A. (high-end bass,
crooning/griping)
Filer (sampler and piano)
Natz (low-end bass)
Phil Puleo (metal and drums)
Tod A.: You guys have to trade
off, make this fair, one question from you and then one from
Discorder: First, the basics:
Cop Shoot Cop, the name,
seems to suggest a distaste for
police in general. Could you
further enlighten us?
Well, there's the drug reference and the anti-authoritarian
reference, you figure it out.
That seems to come out in the
title of your latest release, Ask
Questions Later, which seems
to refer to police brutality.
Yeah, well, it's the old play on
Throwrug: Why are you in a
Because I'm not much good
at anything else.
Why are you in this
Well, if I was wiser, or
if I was sleazier, I would
have been a politician. I
can kinda play bass and
I can sorta fake singing
so I do that. But I
going to do it forever, probably
three more years at the most,
then maybe something in the
media. I like fucking with the
media so maybe something along
those lines.
Discorder: I notice you're
wearing a Smith &
Wesson hat. Does that
mean anything or is it
just a damn hat?
We're doing an endorsement for Smith &
Wesson firearms so they
give us free merchan-
Well, you're anti-authoritarian but guns = N.R.A.-right-
wing lobbies. It just seems like
a bit of an incongruity.
Well, let me put it this way, I
don't own a gun but sometimes
it seems like a good idea.
Where is this tour taking you?
This is your second time in Van-
Yeah, uh...third? We just came
back from a month and a half in
Europe, we did the east coast of
the States before that, Toronto,
the west coast, California....
That's a boring question, no one
Where have you received the
most support...the best re-
Italy for some reason. Seven
course meals and a lot of violence at the shows. We seem to
be big in fascist countries, ex-
fascist countries, which is a little scary. I haven't figured it
out, couldn't tell you why.
Throwrug: Would it be too
much of a cliche to ask
you about your influ-
Yes.
O.K., if other bands
claimed you as an influence what would
you hope they would
be like?
I would hope they would
id nothing like us. We've
always tried to not have a sound,
and if we do it's purely because
we're limited by what talent we
have. We try to push ourselves in
as many different directions as
we can just to keep from getting
bored. So I hope if any band is
inspired by us it's just to sound
nothing like us—to do music that
has never been heard before.
Discorder: It's been suggested
that Cop Shoot Cop would have
been a better choice for the
Lollapalooza line-up than some
ofthe bands that were actually
on it. Would you have wanted
to be on the tour?
I think in theory it's a good thing.
Actually, it's sorta based on all
the festivals they have in Europe, we've played quite a few of
those. What it actually amounts
to at the moment isn't that great.
Compared to the shows that I
went to when I was seventeen,
the Who, the Clash and Santana,
it's a lot better than that but I
think you can see better bands. I
guess it's a way of exposing people to bands they might not check
out if they were playing alone, in
that way it's a good thing, but the
bands they're being exposed to
aren't that mind-boggling. I don't
think we'd ever play it.
Why not?
Because we don't like playing
outdoors, the sound dissipates and
it's not as controlled.
Throwrug: The video for "Ten
Dollar Bill" is equal parts goofy
and creepy. Are you in total
artistic control?
Well, we directed it, we had the
idea for it. We decided that since
we were so talentless and ugly
that we should hire some people
with real talent to play us in the
video. So we got some dwarves
and circus freaks and went down
to Mexico to try and lose the
New York garbage association
that's always followed us around.
We're pretty happy with it. We
wanted to get that surreal circus
atmosphere because that's what
the song seems to suggest.
Discorder: Your label, Restless...
They put out our records 'cause
the label we're on doesn't do
records anymore, which is kind of
a sad thing. We demanded that we
have vinyl so they had to put it out
through an inde.. We're on
Interscope in the states and an
inde. called Big Cat in Europe.
Interscope is a corporate rock
monolith.
Are you happy being with them?
Well, it's allowed us to quit our
jobs and concentrate on music,
and they haven't made us change
anything about our music, so, yeah,
I'm happy. Basically we've been
able to do whatever the fuck we
want and they pay for it, that's
fine by me. It's better than being
broke and eating peanut butter
sandwiches.
Cliched question, but questions
the fans want to hear: where are
you going with your music, how
are you changing, did you try
doing anything different on this
album than the last, and any
new directions with the next?
I have no idea what the next album is going to sound like because we haven't even started writing the songs yet. We have learned ;
to play our instruments a little bit
better and we know our way around
the studio a little bit more. Also,
we now know how to manipulate
the accidents, shape the chaos.
There's no plan.
Do you have any agenda, any
message in your lyrics?
We try to piss people off, confuse
them, maybe inspire them. We may
be political but we're not correct.
This is Jim [Filer], he can answer
the rest of your questions.
/
How do you choose your samples? Are you in charge of what
the band uses?
Jim Filer: We get them from everywhere, really. A lot of the spoken word stuff is from late-night
radio, there's bass feedback from
noise...everywhere.
tar in your sound creates a juxtaposition between two very different elements: the low-end
bass and metal banging has a
very low-tech minimalist aspect to it and then ther
the high-tech that yoi
deal with. Do you see
that end taking on a
more important role?
Well, on one hand, as
far as being able to afford to buy better equipment and having the
time to learn it, techno
ogy is a useful tool b
don't want it to dominate the
music. Ultimately, it's all got to
remain pretty simple but it's important to have good sample
equipment, hard drives and all
that, they make your life easier.
Sometimes they make it a lot
harder. Sometimes the hardware
doesn't work and it's a fucking
nightmare, and the sampling process can take a long time. No
matter how high-tech you get
it's like automobiles, you can't
literally fix them.
So you're somewhat at the
mercy ofthe technology...?
Yeah, at times it can be incredibly frustrating having those certain boundaries put on me but
it's really important to have those
boundaries, to be forced to work
within those confines. Sampling
is pretty limitless but there are
certain limitations to the equipment. For me, sampling is a very
tiny window that opens into a
Have you ever had to pay a
fee to use a sampli
Never had to. Most of the
stuff we use is pretty obscure, though one of the
songs on our Suck City
EP,  which  borrowed
something from the Ex-
orcistlll, we had to fuck
with to get released ir
America. Not something
I wanted to do but it be-
The virtual absence of any gui-
ing/bizarre incident on the tour
so far?
We were taken into a police station in Gent, Belgium, for hav-
Dercussion jam at a con-
iction site. We ended
p having an hour and a
half long political discussion with one of
the policemen there.
It was pretty interesting; pretty fun. Other
than that, we had five
fire engines called to a
Jtel in Albany, NY, for
lting off fireworks inside.  That was eventually
blamed on some high-school kids.
Did Canada customs give you
any trouble?
Not this time. They have in the
past. This guy was pretty cool,
he was telling us how Millions
of Dead Cops had given him a
CD when they were through last
summer. He knew what was going on. Inthe past they've threatened to throw me in jail and take
all our equipment. I was looking
at $2,000 just to get turned over
to the NY State troopers.
Do you have a strong scene
supporting you at home?
There seems to be something I
call the "Vancouver syndrome"
afflicting local bands Skinny
Puppy and Front Line Assembly. They seem to be nearly invisible at home but get very enthusiastic response abroad. We
get good support, good turnout,
at our shows. I think there's a
misconception about the scene
NY. "Scene" is a weird
word. There are a lot of
people doing a lot of
different types of music and somehow we
all wind up knowing
each other. It gets sort
at time-
cohesive group mov-
direction,
there's a lot of diver-
ty. So we have support
but I'm not sure about the word
AUGUST ^ wmmwU
ONE
day whilst innocently flipping through Andre Gibeault's Canadian Records Discography a name popped out from the page that would be the key to unlocking
the mysteries of 1960's Maritime rock happenings and a burgeoning 1990's punk scene - all in the fair province of New Brunswick. Yes, indeed, it Could
only be The Stonemen. Described as having released the "wildest punk fuzz screamer*' to ever come out of Canada, their 1966 single was also incredibly rare - only one copy
had been known to have survived the test of time. No other information on the Stonemen existed. Period. From that moment on I constantly hounded every band from the Maritimes
that graced the CiTR playlist asking if they ever heard of the Stonemen. Of course, nothing. DEAD FUCKING END! Did these guys actually exist or was it all cruel hoax?
Well, to my total surprise, almost three years to the date of my first catching "Stonemania,"
Hampton, New Brunswick's Jason Ogden of the combo NFA reported that not only had he been aware
of the Stonemen legend but his good pals in Moncton's Bad Luck #13 actually cover a Stonemen tune
"In the Evening"! Yahoo. Further cross-Canada correspondence with Jason revealed that Bad Luck #13
learnt about the "Stoney men" through Mark Gaud let, drummer for Eric's Trip, who actually owned a copy
of the single! When Mark passsed through Vancouver only a few days later with the Trip he promised to search
out the Stonemen upon return to Moncton. And, boy, did he come through! Phone numbers, photos and facts.
All I had to do was dial. Whew! And dial I did. The following is an interview with Fernand and Danny LeBlanc
of the Stonemen:
DKN     (!•««)  tUrltia-.
If.   r..lljr  . nighta.r.  of
Thi.  1.  th. HILDEST  PUNK  F
Along with  "Expedition  To
ful   doubl.-.ld.d  ilngla   to
UZZ   SCREAMER   that   I' va  h..
of  mr  f.vorlt. PSYCHEDELIC
E.rth"   .nd  "P.lnt.d Shlp"
kP
»   ths
of   lt.
IN  T
HE EVENINO/FADED COLOR
S                   (l>(   2)  MARITIME
006
1968     ♦100.
from Canadian Records by Andre Gibeauk (Montreal: Underworld, 1987)
DISCORDER: So where haveyou been
all these years? What happened to
you ? Gosh, I mean, the Stonemen
were the wildest 60s punk to come
out of the Maritimes! What happened
to the band?
Fernand: We disbanded about I dont
know, I've been married now for almost twenty-five years!
When did the band get together?
When did the Stonemen form?
Fernand: It was about 1964 or something like that.
Who was actually in the Stonemen?
Fernand: There were four brothers.
Exactly how many copies of your 45
were pressed?
Fernand: I don't know. We did that for
a guy who came from Riverview. We
disbanded shortly after that and we
never heard anything about it again. I
donl how many records were pressed,
we never heard anything from him.
We just disbanded and the whole
thing stopped right there.
Danny: I think we had a thousand. It
was distributed all throughout New
Brunswick, PEI, and Nova Scotia. The
single helped us out quite a bit, you
know. As a matter of fact, when it first
came out, it sold about five hundred
copies in one month!
Do you remember the guy?
Fernand: Geez, I don't remember his
name.
What was his background?
Fernand: Well, he was a disk-jockey
on CKCW at that particular time. His
radio name was Willy-Q.
Danny: We were playing at a boy's
club in Moncton and there was a guy
that was working at CKCW producing
some music, Bill McFadden. Through
him we got a deal.
Where did you record the single?
Fernand: Well, that was in an old
record studio at CKCW back in 1967.
Did you cut any other songs in the
session?
Fernand: No. We were going to do an
LP after that but we disbanded and
the whole thing just dropped like that
Danny: We were on a TV show, Top
Ten Plus, they had every Saturday
afternoon and we recorded quite a
few songs for that. We probably recorded a dozen songs altogether.
Don't ask me where they went or
where they are now, they were mostly
on tapes.
Are any of those still around?
Fernand: Geez, I dont know. I had a
master copy of the whole thing - ten,
fifteen songs - but the thing erased.
"In the Even! ng" is such a classic 60's
punk song! Ifs totally wild!
Fernand: Well, we were a bit ahead of
our time.
The sound is totally intense! Where
did you get the weird guitar sounds?
Fernand: We used to work at it quite
a bit. I dont know, that's just the way
itwas.
It sounds like the guys in the studio
didn't really know how to handle you.
Fernand: They didn't, really. We used
to tell them what to do.
Is that one of the tamest songs that
you guys had, 'cause I heard you
picked the two tamest songs for the
45?
Fernand: Well, no, that was pretty well
what was going on then.
Danny: Ha ha, you might say that. We
had some pretty wild stuff, compared
to the songs "Faded Colours" and "In
the Evening."
You didn't have any other really wild
numbers?
Fernand: Well, we used to. At that
particular time there wasnt any such
thing as a cassette tape or anything
like that. There used to be what is
called a cartridge that they used to
use in radio stations just for commercials. We used those to record on and
once in a while they plugged those in
to play on the radio.
Do you remember any of the song
titles?
Fernand: No, not really, just the two
that were on the 45.
Was the 45 distributed at all? Did you
get any feedback from it at all?
Fernand: Well, there were a few sales
that we heard of but we never found
out how many. I also heard that there
were some sold in the United States
after that.
The 45 was on the Maritime Label.
Who ran the Maritime Label?
Danny: Ah, geez. I cant remember
who it was. My other brothers, Bert
and Fernand, were doing most ofthe
legal stuff. Eric and I just played and
fooled around!
Fernand: Well, this would be the guy
who had us make the tape, the record.
Were the Stonemen the wildest group
in the Maritimes?
Fernand: At the time, yes, I would say
so. We were the first group with long
hair, I know that for sure.
Danny: Wewerentrealrywild.Weallhad
long hair, we were the only band with
long hair back in 1966/67. Our music
was a little bit "off-ball" for that year.
THE STONEMEN!
Danny LebJanc, lead
guitar • Fernand LeWanc,
rhythm guitar & vocal •
Nofbert LeWanc, bass &
lead vocal • Eric Leblanc,
16 B3_£-5_®__05___rt *******
*********
Who were some of the other groups
you remember from the area? Do you
Fernand: Yeah, they were on at that
particular time. They were on before
us, they wore ties and coat type things,
but they were still on when we were.
And what did you guys wear?
Fernand: Anything we could think of
to make people talk.
How about Eight Point Five? Have
you heard about them? They were
from from Bathurst, New Brunswick?
Fernand: I don't remember.
The Great Scots? The Rockatones?
Fernand: The Rockatones, that sounds
familiar.
Do you remember the names of any
of the groups you played with in New
Brunswick?
Fernand: Geez, I'd have to think back
Did the Stonemen pull off any neat
stunts on stage?
Fernand: Yeah, sometimes we did
things. I remember once I smashed a
guitar on stage.
Where did you play most of your
gigs?
Fernand: We played all over New
Brunswick, PEI and parts of Nova
Scotia.
Danny: We played at the University
and some coffee houses in Moncton.
We played throughout the Maritimes,
and in Montreal and Toronto also.
Where were the Stonemen from?
Fernand: Cape Pete, New Brunswick.
Were the Stonemen actually
"stonemen**?
Danny: Well, we were stonemasons.
My dad's a bricklayer by trade - a
mason. I'm still a mason by trade.
Why did you change your name from
the Wytes to the Stonemen?
Fernand: We wanted to change the
whole thing because we used to play,
like what the Playboys used to play,
the same type of music. We wanted to
change the music so we changed the
name along with it
Do you still have any of your same
instruments?
Fernand: Oh, no.
Another famous legend I heard about
the Stonemen comes from Ray 13,
who plays in a Moncton band called
Bad Luck *13 - they cover "In the
Evening.*' They're a modem 1990*8
group. Ray 13 has said, "In the later
days of the Stonemen's musical career they played out of the back of a
truck while cruising down some main
road in Moncton. They belted out the
punk-psychedelia while a blue strobe
light pulsed and fluxed." Is that true?
Fernand: I'm afraid not.
Danny: Yeah, it was on a float! Yup. It
was on a tractor/trailer float They
stopped all the traffic on Main Street.
We were there for about ten minutes
and played two songs. This was around
the time we had the 45 out.Actually,
there was another member in the
group when we did that. After we
made the record we were looking for
a keyboard player and we found this
fellow from St. John. His name was
John Owen. Actually, he was probably
the person who got us "wild." He kind
of brought us to another level.
Was he on the single?
Danny: No, he wasnt.
Did he get the Stonemen "stoned"
and bring in drugs?
Danny: No drugs at all; none whatsoever. As a matter of fact when we
disbanded I went to San Diego, California, in 1969.1 worked out there for
about eight months and when I got
back I was approached by a band
from Nova Scotia -1 cant remember
their name, they're a popular band
now - they used drugs. They said it
was part of the rituals. And I said,"If
that's the way it is you're gonna have
to find yourself another guitar player."
That's when I stopped playing guitar,
really. That's when I stopped playing
music. I said,"lf I have to do this stuff
to play music it's not for me!"
Mark from Eric's Trip supplied me
with this little clipping that says, "The
Stonemen show and invite you to an
excursion into your mind called The
Quest of the Purple King."
Danny: John Owen came up with this.
That summer the Stonemen disbanded and we were left with only
myself, John Owen and Eric. That's
when we went to Montreal and Toronto.... I have another brother, Roger,
who played with us after we broke up
from the Stonemen. We formed another group with myself, Eric, John
Owen, and Roger playing bass. We
changed the name of the band to
King Zeek.
What happened to the rest of the
Stonemen? What are they doing?
Danny: Fernand's working at bricklaying... Eric, when he turnedabout21 or
22, when we got back from Montreal,
he had a mental disease, you know,
schizophrenia. I'm not to familiar with
these terms doctors use but he got
really bad. It's just something that
happens I guess. Bert passed away of
a heart attack three years ago in Toronto.
Vancouver, somewhere. This was back
in the early 80's. Where he's at now I'd
be guessing.
Anything else interesting about the
Stonemen?
Fernand: Well, geez, I dont know, it's
been almost thirty years now!
Danny: I play a lot of golf with alot of
people and sometimes they say, "You
were an original member of the
Stonemen," and "I remember watching you here and watching you there
and stuff like that!" In fact, this year the
Canadian Amateur Golf Championship is being held in Victoria, out your
way. So if I make the team I'll pop over
and see you!
Thanks very much and keep on rawkin'
in the free worid!
Fernand: Thanks. Ifyou ever find anything else out about our band, the
Stonemen, give me a shout!
So there it be. An interview of 60's
Maritime punk legends the
Stonemen made possible by Maritime 90's punk legends, NFA Bad
Luck *13, and Eric's Trip. Now, I
wonder if current Newfoundland
noise guys Hardship Post have any
info on Newfoundland GCsfuzz kings
the Du-Cats? Hmmm Just wondering-
1 _toK3C^Cfe[?
I "Personally, I can't
fget enough of it,
and it's turning me
| into a pusher. So
get out there and
try it, but careful,
it's addictive."
RDon McSuuiney
Vox Magazine
With on oil-star cast of musicians;
Richard Uoyd (Teteviso4), Robert
Quin* {lou Reed; Richard Hell), Ivan
Julian (Voidoids), drummers Rick
Menck (Velvet Crush), Fred Maher
(co-producer of .C?!f Irriend), Ron
Pangborn (Mas Not Ulas), Pete
Thomas (Elvis Costal los
Attractions), Mick Fleetwood fit Jody
Stephens (Big-Star), pedal
steel/dobro player Greg leisz (k.d.
long's Reclines), & piano player
Nicky Hopkins (Seatles, Stones,
John lennon:). Produced by Richard
Oashut (Fleetwood Mac's Rumours
*Tusk).
0__Sc__]3
Cifc73[_^P_l_X-3D^ ANT
^^H*W n a Saturday night last May, I learned bow it felt to be Danish. I'd spent the last
hour or so of that evening at a Chinatown restaurant having dinner with the members of
Giant Sand, a couple of friends accompanying them on their first excursion into the Pacific
Northwest and some newfound friends they made while in Vancouver. After a filling meal
of vegetarian Chinese food in the company of six Americans and curious locals, I couldn't
understand why I felt that way. The feelings I had weren't punctuated by cravings of
Advocaat and Havarti cheese, I was just feeling silly. (Well, I was. Thelonious Monk and
Howe Gelb are both talented musicians.) During dinner I attempted to interview Howe
Gelb, Sand's founder/leader/proprietor. The experience reminded me of a humorous
moment from the Thelonious Monk film documentary, Monk: Straight, No Chaser, in
which a Danish music writer asked Monk if tbe hats that he wore had any influence on his
music. "Ha haha. Uhh...no."
Ten years, thirteen albums and hundreds of frustrated music writers later, Gelb still
finds it difficult to talk about what he does or, rather, what he's done. It isn't because he's
a jerk; "I can't talk very good", he offered. "Anything you make up, I'll sign it. Anything
you say, it'll be alright." For acouple of days following that first attempt I considered doing
just that. But after conversing long distance with Kate "Jazz Cat" Hyman, a long-time
friend of Howe's from New York, I thought it was worth another try. I'd interview him
again when he got home and talk to a couple of his closest friends. He consented to do a
second interview with me over tbe phone ("All that stuff they say about me is just stuff,"
he warned). Some help his friends turned out to be: "This is very Citizen Kane-like," joked
Steve Wynn. "His sled was named Rosebud..."
Howe Gelb left Rosebud and the cold winters of Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania behind
forTuscon, Arizona. While growing up Howe learned piano and latertaught himself guitar.
Around 1980, Gelb formed his first of many versions of the band (known as Giant
Sandworms at the time) and later completed their first record, a 7" EP pressed on white
vinyl. Will Wallow and Roam After the Ruin turned out to be tbe last record Gelb would
make for five years. The generally accepted beginning of Giant Sand as we know it,
recording-wise, began with Valley of Rain in 1985. Rain was released during a period of
fascination by mostly American artists and bands to combine the intensity of west coast
punk with the themes and dynamics of country mu
sic. Rankand File, Green ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ On Red, True West, The
LongRyders.TheDream ■        Syndicate,    X,    Divine
Horsemen, Thin White Rope, Naked Prey and the
Sidewinders, among oth- ers, circled their wagons
around L.A. and blasted audiences with songs of
drifters, betrayal and the downtrodden with Tel-
were lumped in with this mid-eighties posse from the
start, Giant Sand stood out     due     to     Gelb's
songwriting,whichdealt with personal themes as
The following year, I       with a slightly (and, as it
turned out,  fatefully)       I *       retooled line-up, the Gelb
gang created their sec- ond record, Ballad of a
Thin Line Man, one of those rare little classics
that's abundant with di- vergcncy, power and sonic
envisionment. It'sopened by the songtoeiulalldrifter
songs, "Thin Line Man," **************************w******m**w a se.'en-minute epic embellished wilh a guitar solo that qualifies as
Howe's thesis paper in Neil Young. Gelb along with bassist Scott Garber, drummer Tom
Larkins (who at the time was also a member of Naked Prey, another Tuscon outfit) and
Paula Jean Brown (a guitarist/bassist who did a short stint with the Go-Go's as Jane
Wiedlin's departure replacement) were arguably the tightest version ofthe band, studio-
wise. The influence of styles (Leaving Trains' Falling James sings "Last Legs,"a cocktail-
jazz inspired song which he co-wrote with Gelb), admi red predecessors (a cover ofthe late
Johnny Thunders' "You Can't Put Your Arms Around a Memory"), and shared contribution (Brown gets a chance to showcase a good singing voice on "The Chill Outside"), along
with the other songs on the record ("A Hard Man To Get To Know," "Graveyard" and
"Body Of Water") made Ballad a prototype for the band's future releases.
Storm followed two years later and was their third release on as many labels. Gelb
Interveiw by Rob Harrison
can't (and probably never will)
be bothered with tbe wants and
protocol ofthe business, he's too
busy making music: "We basically hand the record company
an ashtray," he explains, "and we
tell them that's the next record.
And if they' re worth their weight
in salt they'll sell it, whatever the
fuck it is. We give them an ashtray and tell them it's a record,
but we don't do demonstration
ashtrays." Gelb's frreverence
could easily be mistaken for irre-
sponsibility at times. When be
and long-time drummer Jon
Convertino and bassist Joe Bums
cametoVancouverfortheirTown
Pump appearance they arrived
forty-minutes before tbe ten PM
starting time because Howe drove
through tbe border crossi ng three
times (?). Upon arrival they set
up their gear, grabbed a quick
beer and played. "It used to be we
didn't do a set Ust," explained
Gelb. "Now we don't do sound
checks." They didn't need one.
Few bands possess the shared
intuition that Gelb, Burns and
Convertino have bve. Set lists?
Soundcheck-? What, um, new
frontiers are left for them live?
"Very soon I'm sure we'll have
the technology, at an affordable
cost to the average consumer, to
phone in our parts. I think we
could get two phone bnes, actually, one is the left and one is the
right..."
During the 77ii'n Line/Storm
period, Gelb and Brown got married and bestowed fife to their
daughter, Indiosa, while living
in Los Angeles. It was here where
Howe met long-time band-mate
Convertino, who was Uving in
the same apartment building with
the Gelbs. Convertino, a well
rounded musician who left home
at sixteen to play with a band
comprised of members of his family from Oklahoma, played on
Sand's fourth platter, The Love
Songs, and has been part of the
ever changing Sand roster since.
Songs was the first of three discs
released on Homestead Records,
a part nershi p that was alternately
profitable (Usteners didn't have
to pay stiff import prices for their
records anymore) and frustrating
(Homestead were tardy in paying
Howe publishing money. Check
the Unernotes from Ramp, Sand's
ninth release). This disc includes
some of Gelb's best chestnuts
("Wearing The Robes Of The Bible Black," "One Man's Women,
No Man's Land," "Almost The
PoUtician's Wife") and a skewered
version ofthe Leiber/Stoller (made
famous by Peggy Lee) classic "Is
That All There Is?".
"I remember, when I was a
kid, I was watching The Honey-
mooners and the whole damn T.V.
set caught on fire. Dad picked me
up Uke a football, got me out the
house, and I stood there in my
pyjamas watching tbe whole thing
bum. And when it was all done
and tbe fire trucks had left I said
to myself, Ts that all there is to a
fire?'"
Two weeks following his
stay in Vancouver I called Howe
at his home in Tuscon and had
better luck in getting him to open
up about his work overthe years.
"I can do almost as good a job as
you could by looking back at the
records and trying to figure out
why they got done. Every time
you do a record it puts some contrast on the record you did before. " Getti ng Ho we to talk about
past work is particulariy difficult, he seems to be thinking of
the next set of songs. "I work on
that [record] up until the point it
gets done and then I'm free of it.
That's when you [the Ustener]
step into it. It's something you
can touch and hear, almost taste.
Then you talk about how it sounds,
tastes and flies with you. But I
couldn't even touch on that. It's
not for me to do. It's not for
anyone to Usten to me do either.
I'd be wasting their time and my
Gelb also finds it a chore to
talk about songwriting, probably
due to the fact that he doesn't
think too much abon*. it. He goes
to bed with a welcome mat at the
door, the next moming there's a
baby in a basket on the front
stoop: "It's not completely un-
probably more sub-
i, although there have
been periods of unconsciousness.
A song wrote itself down last
night. It's a great old country
song. It could have just as well
been around for sixty-years.
Maybe it was, I don't know. I
don't know why it chose last night
to come around. I didn't sit down
to wnte the thing. You get sounds;
you bear things. I don't even
understand the principle of radio
waves. My daughter asked me
last night as we passed three big
radio towers how Uttle and skinny
the towers were for people to live
in. And I was trying to explain to
her that no one lives in those
towers, but she wouldn't have
any of it. She didn't get the fact
that they're there to make the
radio work. I could technically
explain it to her but I still didn't
really believe that there were
waves floating around all the time.
Maybe somebody wrote that country song sixty-years ago. With
the earth spinning the way it does
it's catching up to the spot where
it was sixty-years ago and I'm
hearing it. I'm tbe antenna that's
picking it up. That's about as
co ncreteas lean get."Steve Wynn
has him figured out probably better
that anyone: "Howe's from tbe
school where you throw the paint
against the wall and describe it
later."
Out in the desert in and
around Tuscon, with all that open
space, you'd think that Howe
chose to live there to improve his
reception of those waves (or
"sonics" as he likes to put it). It's
part and parcel with Giant Sand's
identity. ButHowe'sUvedinL.A.
and even New York, and if he can
do it there..."I could do it anywhere, definitely. I don't want to
rely on that." Wynn, a long-time
friend of Gelb's, agrees; "He's
bved in Pennsylvania and Arizona, tbe desert and HoUywood,
and has retained tbe things he
does through all of that," said
Wynn. "He'snot too fond of L.A.
though..."
One man's harp can be another man's crutch: "You can't
blame your environment on the
mess you make sonically," said
Gelb. "If it does I don't want to
be aware of it. I don't think that
Thelonious Monk would make
any different music if he was out
here in Tuscon.... The last three
years I was literally out in the
middle of nowhere in Rimrock,
and that was cool, but I found
myself loving it so much that I
wasn't available for otlier things
Even though it's a few hours from
L.A. it seems like being in Tuscon.
Maybe it's just tbe schools and
the kid. It just seems like I'm
busier here. I think it's age more
than anything. In the next few
years I'll have the most energy to
get some work done and then go
back to the middle of nowhere".
Long Stem Rant, released i n
1989, qualifies as the strangest
release Gelb & Co. have to offer.
Recorded shortly after his divorce
from Brown, Rant is an off-balance collection of filled out songs
("Searchlight," "Sucker In A
Cage"), stop and starts ("Smash
Jazz," "Long About Now"), and
sound bites. Gelb and Convertino
put Rant together during a single
weekend, in a red shack outside
of Tuscon, with long-time engineer Eric WestfaU writing aU the
songs during their stay there.
Besides "Searchlight" and
"Sucker," two other classics on
the record are "Loving Cup"
("Now he sits alone without a
crowd, his hurt is silent, but bis
pain is loud") and "Bloodstone,"
a heapin' dose of metallic b.o.
chronicling an experience with a
collection agent ("Knock knock
knocking knocking knock, go
away. Don't need to supportyou,
go awayyyy..."). Gelb's weapons of choice for the record (and
for most of his career) are acoustics or electric acoustics enhanced
with lots of volume, distortion
and a Uttle bit of wah (the electric/acoustic was made by Harmony , whose guitars were mostly
made for and bought at Sears).
Convertino favours simple, no-
friUs kits: the Ludwig kit that he
played here looked like a beginner's set. Gearheads they ain't.
The informabty of the atmosphere Gelb sets in the studio
is appreciated by his many friends
who have contributed to his recordings in the past. Chris
Cacavas, the former Green On
Red keyboardist (now the leader
of his ownband, Junkyard Love),
has been a contributor to Sand
both bve and on virtually every
record since Valley of Rain.
"Thinking about those sessions,
they were always real loose and a
great time," recounted Cacavas.
"Sometimes he'll have an idea
and want me to play a specific
thing, and I don't have a problem
with it, other times he leaves it up
to me. Him [Gelb] being a keyboard player himself, he would
hear certain melodical ideas and
would have me play on his interpretation." Cacavas also appreciates Howe's not often heard
piano stylings, which often resemble one of his favourite players: "I just love hearing other people play," said Cacavas. "Even
Jon Convertino will sit down at
the piano and amazing stuff will
come out of his fingertips. But
Howe has a real cool style, very
Monk inspired."
Former Dream Syndicate
leader, now solo performer, Steve
Wynn (who recently completed a
disc with a band comprised of
old friends called Gutterball) finds
Gelb's spontaneous approach to
recording especially pleasurable.
"It's very inspiring to go into tbe
studio with someone where you
play the song once through and
say T think I'm ready to do the
rake now,' andhe'dsay 'that was
tbe take. Next'. There's stuff that
everyone on the track played but
would have played again. They
would have played it better or
sanded down their first impression to the point where it's a little
more average, competent, boring. He goes forthe best moment
where you're stiU fascinated and
discovering."
Wynn and Gelb played on
each other's 1990 releases, Steve
adding guitar to Swerve ("My only
lead-guitar work, ever," bemoaned
Wynn) with Howe returning the
favour on Wynn's solo platter,
Kerosene Man. As it turns out,
Gelb is just as dedicated to making it work on projects other than
his own. "There's a song on there
called 'Carolyn'," remembered
Wynn, "that he was originally
going to play solo on (Howe's
"fringed lunabc" guitar is heard
on the creepy song "Younger").
He came to a rehearsal before we
did the record and played a solo
that was amazing. I had it recorded on a tiny, twenty-doUar
recorder and thought 'this is the
perfect solo'. We brought him in
to do the record, I played it for
him and said, 'This was great
what you did, just do this here'.
He can't do anything twice. It's
not that he won't, he can't. We
spent about five hours trying to
get him to replay this one moment he had in a rehearsal room
before realizing he had to play
the same thing twice and end up
being mental. He was such a good
sport about it. He was sleeping
on my couch at the time and he
took the tape home. I heard him
until seven in the morning trying
to duplicate the solo and it just
couldn't happen."
Swerve assembled an aU-
star cast. Included with Wynn
and Cacavas were Mark Walton
(Wynn's ex-bandmate & bassist
with Dream Syndicate), Blake
Baby Juliana Hatfield, frequent
contributor FalUng James, several members of the Austin, Texas
band Poi Dog Pondering, ex-band
member Brown (who is presently
the bassist for Wynn's backing
band) and many others. The following year Giant Sand made
Rump, which became their first
release on Restless Records—
Restless plan to re-issue the entire Sand back-catalogue.
Throughout Giant Sand's existence, Demon (and its satelUte
label Zippo) have kept their music circulating in Europe, where
sales oftheir records are healthy
enough to enable them to tour
there regularly. One of these tours
provided one ofthe funniest (and
more gruesome) Sand stories ever
heard. As told by Mr. Cacavas:
"At the end of this show in Cologne, we' re walking home, kind
of loose, we had a good show,
drank some beers. We were at a
train station, walking towards the
hotel, and we saw a set of escalators completely abandoned. As a
kid, you always wanted to mn up
the down escalator or vice-versa,
so we were Uke, 'Yeah, let'shave
races'. So we all go down to the
bottom. I did the first ran because I was feeUng giddy, so I
ran up and made pretty good time.
Boosta, the tour manager, ran up
and ended up gouging his knee
up near the top. Howe was next.
He was making pretty good time.
He's a pretly lanky guy and he's
hauUng ass up this down escalator, which was pretty funny and
surreal looking. He wipes out and
smashes his knee open. Those
guys are taken to the top and they
had to crawl the last few steps. It
was pretty pathetic. When they
went to the Hospital the next day
to have their wounds looked at,
Howe had a couple of half-inch
gouges that he put a couple of
dots above for eyes, and he started
making them sing. We have all of
this on video-tape. It's pretty hysterical, so ifyou ever need video
documentation..."
Ramp was Joe Bums' first
record with Giant S and o n a record
that kept the guests to a timely
minimum. Victoria Williams plays
banjo and sings on many of the
songs (including aduet with I lo we
on "Wonder") and Pappy AUen,
a local country singer/songwriter
Gelb met in one of his many forays into the desert, sings on a
memorable cover of "Welcome
To My World." Gelb seems to
have no shortage of friends and
they all invariably end up on his
records. One Usten to Gelb's accumulative madness by a mainstream country music fan might
leave them scratching their head,
especially if they knew that some-
oneofLucindaWilbams' stature
had ever made a record with him.
But there she is, her name spelled
Lucienda (she was experiencing
problems with her record company at the time), on a duet with
Howe: "BurningDesire."A Gelb
original that's part of Sage Advice, one of three records Gelb
has made under the moniker of
Blacky Ranchette. Ranchette is
Gelb's conduit forexploring country music, whether it's with previously recorded songs, intended
originals, and/or covers.
With the release of Center
ofthe Universe, Giant Sand appear to finally be ready to attract
some long deserved attention. If
they don't, people will catch up
with them eventually. "People
get bored with a certain kind of
music after awhile," said Gelb.
"You get the few who are saturated enough and look for the
dissonance, tbe new rhythms, the
new melodies...something that's
pushing the envelope. Whether
it's months or years later, the
multitudeof people will find that
acceptable." -VtiA-fKi
niDNDRY TO SRTURDRY
9PM 2RM
9PM I2RM
DRINK SPECIALS
mIONDRY
WEDNESDRY
.
mammm
Aug. 3-7  SONNY RHODES &
THE TEXAS TWISTERS
Aug. 10-14    LINDA HORNBUCKLE w/
THE NO DELAY BAND
Aug. 11 JOE LOUIS WALKER
Aug. 17-21 TONY FLAIME w/ THE DEMONS
Aug. 24-28 RUSSEL JACKSON w/
THE JACK BAND
Aug. 31-Sept. 1   THE ORIGINAL SINNERS
mimSMKLAM'SMS:
SATURDAY 3-8 PM / SUNDAY BLUES MARATHON JAM 3PM -MIDNIGHT
JACK LA VIN'S JAMS ARE SPONSORED BY MOTHERS MUSIC AND THE DRUM SHOP
OPEN EACH NIGHT FROM 9:30 PMTO 1:30 AM OPEN WEEKDAYS FROM 11:30 AM the cruel elephant
concert productions
presents
EVERY
TUESDAY!
crueletephant
- •»A~_
K_3_J
nite
atthM___°,us
by Rob>  Harrison
"...they called for an Ambulance and one was sent, someone got lucky but it was an
— Bob Dylan
Demo recordings hold a certain amount of fascination
whenever they' re made available, especially those made
by artists who have compiled
a large body of work over
time. Depending on circumstances, you may get the opportunity to hear a different,
maybe even better, version
of a song that's more endearing than a polished, intended
rendering. A simplified arrangement, less (or more) in-
cording quality because of
crappy equipment or technical ignorance may sway your
preference. The pressure musicians face in attempting to
turn in a perfect take, especially when bed tracks (bass
and drums) are recorded, can
turn well adjusted, laid back
players into neurotic, sniping egg walkers. Recording
demos, in most cases, doesn't
involve that kind of pressure,
that is if the band is already
signed. All they're really
meant to accomplish is to give
a band (or a prospective record
label) an idea of where they
Steve Wynn of
Gutterball felt that way a little over a year ago when he
and old friends Bryan Harvey
and Johnny Hott of House Of
Freaks, former Long Ryder
Stephen McCarthy and ex-
Silos bassist Bob Rupe stumbled into a Richmond, Virginia studio to record some
songs he and Harvey had written. "It was really only meant
to become a notebook type
of thing," stated Wynn. "We
had one evening of studio
time and went in and threw
tbe stuff on tape, all first takes,
all live, just so we'd have things
to listen to later on. It's gone
from that to being a record."
As it turned out Gutterball
(Mute/WEA) is an enjoyably
ragged collection of mistakes,
performances and good songs.
Following two fairly polished
solo offerings on Rhino
Records' now defunct RNA
label, Wynn's contribution to
Gutterball (he sang lead and
played guitar on the disc's
twelve cuts) is the rawest and
arguably best work he's done
in years. "Usually the first
record you ever do is pretty
primitive and live. This is ac-
than anything I' ve done, even
more than the first Dream Syndicate record."
Considering the cumulative experience on Gutterball's
rolls it's hard to believe that
any of these guys (especially
Wynn, who's had previous producing credit) could be lost in
a studio. They weren't, but:
"We did everything wrong,"
explained Wynn of their self-
production methods, which
resulted in a disc that has its
share of amusing but non-damaging problems. "We put all
the amps in the same room
with no baffles; I sang live in
the same room with the other
guys and a monitor that was
blasting in the room; the kick
drum mike fell over half-way
through the session—we didn't
know when, we just noticed
that it had fallen over; and we
recorded at half speed on much
used tape. We did everything
wrong because we didn' t know
we were making a record.
We're very fortunate that we
didn't know we were making
a record because if we put more
time and care into this thing it
wouldn't be nearly as good."
Virtually issued in the order it was recorded (except
for the opener "Trial Separation Blues" and closer "Blessing In Disguise") the recordings have remarkable clarity
despite the bleeding prevalent
throughout. When it came time
to mix the tapes, though, editing on some songs was impossible. Such was the case
with "Motorcycle Boy" and
its distinctive (some think annoying) backing vocals: "We
were thinking, 'You know,
those background vocals kind
of get on your nerves after
awhile. Let's cut them out of
half the song.' When they came
up we pressed mute and figured they' d be out of there but
they kept singing. We realized that they were singing so
loud in the room while we
were tracking it, they were
singing like lunatics while we
were doing the basic track,
that they got caught on tape
and we're stuck with 'em."
The band's recording methods weren' t the only aspect of
the session that was casual:
"We had a bunch of guys sitting around with whiskey and
a lot of spunk(?) and that's
what came out of it. I hear
that's going to be tbe second
single, which cracks me up."
Like the recording quality of the disc, the playing
lacks some of the polish that
Wynndicate-Ryder-Silo and
Freaks fans are used to, but
on record they're a tight, cohesive band and it isn't by
accident. Since moving back
to their hometown of Richmond, Harvey and drummer
Hott have expanded their little two-piece into a foursome,
bringing to it McCarthy's (another Richmond native who
returned home after another
band he fronted in L.A. failed
to get notice) deft Telecaster
touch and Rupe's bass for touring. The results of this move
are in evidence throughout.
"There wasn' t much planning
for the record but there was
enough chemistry there where
if Steven looked at Bryan a
certain way, Bryan knew he
was taking the solo."
Harvey's role in the endeavour is equally as substantial as Wynn's. Having
known Wynn during his time
in Los Angeles, Harvey left
him an open invitation to visit
him in Richmond. As soon as
he completed work on his
1992 solo effort, Dazzling
Display, Wynn travelled East
on a writing junket (including a stop in Nashville) and
took Harvey up on the invite,
with immediate results. "We
hit it off great and wrote eight
songs in two days," said
Wynn, who in a decade-plus
songwriting career has very
few collaborative efforts on
his resume. "I'm not a big
fan of collaborating because
in my head I hear what I want
to hear. I've found that collaborating usually means
compromising what you want
and getting something bland
in the end." Maybe he's finally found an ideal partner.
"In this situation it really
clicked. We' ve gotten together
■  thei
t just
the luck of a certain two day
period. He's a Southern gentleman, very easy-going,
friendly, patient, with a good
sense of humour. All those
good things work for co-writing. Bryan would show me a
riff and I'd come up with some
ridiculous     verse     about
Che-
(h,s
of
songwriting choice on two
tracks) and rain.... We were
egging each other on and it
became a good spirited 'can
you top this' (contest) more
The curse of affluence
("Top Of The. Hill"), today's
seeming surplus of "rebels"
("Motorcycle Boy") and hope
in a stalled relationship
("When You Make Up Your
Mind") are a few ofthe themes
they cover. Rounding out the
record are three songs written solely of Wynn's hand,
the most endearing being the
Weill/Cohen flavoured "One
By One," a tale of an out of
work, out of luck copy writer
clinging to existence in New
York. "It was actually a reject from my last two albums"
laughs Wynn. My manager
has been trying to flog that
song off for years." Wynn's
previous background as a
sportswriter bears questioning on how much resemblance
he has to the song's character; "I was never so much of
a loser as the guy in the song,"
clarified W > un. "I never wrote
for the Post and I never got
fired from a newspaper,
though, okay, I missed a few
AUGUST  ^ CANADA'S LARGEST AND BEST KNOWN RECORD STORES
APPARATUS
MARBLES
i s has Western Can
ion and Most Comorehensive
EoaiamamaeE
■    ON SALE AT 568 SEYMOUR ST. (DOWNTOWN) ONLY.  FOUR  FLOORS OF FUN: Yes, there is life in the Vancouver industrial
scene aid a network made up of musicians
and supporters of industrial/notse/ambient
■nunc (which I am a part of) are meeting
quite regularly. We're looking to put on a
show soon and if you're interested in participating, or just looking for info, feel free to
give me a call at 875-9893. On a wider
scope, here's what's happening internationally.
Rivet Head Culture (If it Moves
Records) is a various compilation claiming
to be unrestrained, cybo-dance, digicore
beats. Some familiar names like Non-Aggression Pact and Chemlab appear, but the
nifty surprise is the self-titled track by Raw
Dog, with vocals by none other than Ogre
and assistance from Puppy producer Dave
"Rave" Ogilvie. It stands out immediately
with its obvious Puppy sound and lyrics,
which are Ogre's statements about vivisection. Also, it's low-tech spontaneity separates it from Ihe overwrought-ess of the
remaining tracks. Nothing about Rivet Head
Culture stands out; get a friend to buy it and
tape Raw Dog.
German funsters Einsturzende
two new CDs out on
Mute, calledM-Wicfton and Inierion which
continue the tradition of Tabula Rasa wit-
its still-life motif and gate-fold sleeves. "3
Thoughts" and "Ring My Bell are featured
on both Interim and Malediction while Malediction included tbe French, English and
lapanese versions of "Bhnne," the deceptively sweet song with female vocals, and
"Ubique Media Daemon," a military char-
to a snare drum and English vocals. It clips
around at a good pace and highlights
Neubauten's choral abilities as well.
Interim, as might be expected, has
two versions of the Tabula Rasa trade, "Die
Interimsliebenden": a gentler English version and a longer German one.
"Salamandnna," which starts off with what
sounds like a witches incantation and incorporates Blixa's wordly howls, claps and
boot stomps, becomes quite eerie with the
band's vocal repetition of the title. You'd
have to be pretty hard hearted not to be
moved by "Salamandrina."
Local releases include, and there are
a few of them, Numbs Death on the
Installment Plan, (Re-constricbon Records).
This is Numb's fust release in quite a while
and benefits from the production of Ken
'Hiwatt' Marshall. With titles like "Violence," "Hole and Curse," you get the general idea lhat this is not an upbeat CD.
Numb's sound seemingly hasn't changed
that much, with the exception of a few aggressive tracks, and therefore they sound a
bit dated. Their few less-stnictured tracks
like "A Dead Place," which start quietly and
kick into pseudo-metal song, are pretty good
but would work a lot better and make Numb
sound a bit more up to date if they bled them
into Ihe aggro parts.
More general mayhem comes from
HiR on their latest CD titled5to/a Liked the
Rodeo (Nettwerk). Hilt's lineup includes
Skinny Puppy members Cevin and Dwayne,
Legendary Pink Dots members Edward Ka-
Spel, the Silver Man and Martyn De Kleer,
in addition to Vancouverites Ryan Moore
and Dave Ogilvie. Sheila Liked The Rodeo
starts off splendidly with mutant reggae and
broadens into very Puppy-esque keyboards
and a weird narrative courtesy of Mr. Ka-
Spel, for the title track. It sounds like lots of
De green guy was involved, so lots of
trippiness here.
The first demo cassette I received
from the mysterious Zorty ManchykJ was
Medication Meditation. Beyond the new-
age sound and weird snippets of lapanese
voices, I was intrigued by the nifty photocopy cover of a Clive Barker illustration
and the fact that I had never heard anything else like it in Vancouver. Another
cassette followed a couple of months later,
/ Did It My Way, which was equally as
nifty. It has a false start of a scratchy
record being taken off, then being put
back on, followed by an exploding bomb.
Small sections of radio and TV broadcasts
are also overlaid to form some sort of beat.
I don't know if this is for sale, but keep
your eyes open, it's good and it's local!
Purple doesn't consider himself
to be a true musician: "I find things that
make noise, whether that be electronic or
acoustic and I use them in my audio art."
Irrelevancy was spontaneously produced
and edited from a file tape recorded during
a trip lo Long Beach. This is nicely focused noise and it's fun trying to identify
what's going on; including bits of conversations on the ferry cafeteria. Purple works
under the name Irrelevancy and has his
tapes for sale at Blast Records. Again, it's
local and worth picking up.
Yo, "Future Rap" is in the house
once again! Startin' things off
is the impressive soundtrack to
Menace IISociety (Jive). Spice
1, Too Short and Ant Barks
come out strong with classic
west coast bass-ed funk with
the Bankster' s "Packin* aGun"
being the funkiest, live, Parliament-style keyboard jam ever.
Brand Nubian give a strong
showing for the east coast with
their track "Lick Dem
Muthaphuckas", as does BDP
with a remake of "P is Still
Free" from back in '86. Da
Lench Mob, DJ Quick and the
Underground Kings also kick
out some dope, as does Mz
Kilo with her track "All Over a
Ho," produced by Cold 187um
from Above theLaw.Allinall,
one hell of a soundtrack.
Next up is tha Jungle
Brothers with their third release, the newest since Done
by the Forces of Nature, J.
Beez Wit the Remedy (Warner
Bros.). A lot of their stuff is
hard to get to with hip hop/
noise/found sound exploration
tracks but there is no denyin'
the lyrical flow and originality
in the straight-up slammin'
tracks like "40 Below
Trooper," "Book of Rhyme
Pages" and "Good Ole Hype
Shit". My overall impression
of the album is that there are a
few good hits, but they've lost
the street feeling by experimenting too much. Then again,
it is starting to grow on me.
There's a new female rapper on the scene and her name
is Boss. Her debut albumfiom
Gangstaz (DJ West/Columbia), comes off strong and
hardcore with the enlisted help
of a lot of different producers:
Def Jef handles most of the
tracks, including the outstanding "Deeper" and "Progress of
Elimination," while Erick Sermon, AMG (her brother), MC
Serch and JamMaster Jay each
take a pair. I think Boss is
gonna give Nikki D a run for
her money as tlie hardest ofthe
female rappers, although the
competition in the female rap
scene has matured now. Listen
to "A Blind Date With Boss"
or "Catch A Bad One" and
you'll know what I mean.
On the female rap tip, the
original gangstress Yo Yo is
back with her third album You
Better AskSomebody. This one
picks up where her first one
ended— you can forget her
second one— with Ice Cube
overseein' things once again
there are a whole bunch of
producers helpin' out with this
one, each oftheir different flavours giving a good fresh feel
to the album. "Givin' It Up"
and "Westside Story" are tlie
funkiest for my money with
"The Bonnie and Clyde
Theme" and "IB Win* Wit My
Crewin'" sure to get a lot of
play. "Pass It On" features
some smooth flow from IB WC
(Intelligent Black Women's
Coalition) members Nick
Nack, Sukii, Chann, Lady "T",
Shorty and Dawn talkin' bout
the Sess. Sounds like Yo Yo's
back in the fold with a smoother
more mature flow and more
flavour. Check it out.
KAM, another righteous
nigga that Ice Cube has hoisted
out ofthe L.A. ghettos (not to
get away from it, but to explain
the life and problems of it while
making funky music for it) onto
his Street Knowledge label, is
kickin' knowledge like nobody
on the west coast has done
befo' for his debut, Neva Again
(Eastwest Records). I mean
he's got the muthaphunkin' P-
funk so deep it could be
knowledgin' y'all even if the
tracks were instrumental! Add
to that some commentary on
the L.A. riots, the Bloods'/
Crips' peace treaty, the teachings of the Nation of Islam, the
irrelevance of most of
Amerikkka's holidays... the list
goes on. KAM don't quit and
he delivers with all the flow of
a veteran. Deeper than you
think and highly recommended.
On the flip, Young MC
has come out with What's the
Flavour? (Capitol), his second
release. It sounds like he'stryin'
to cop the Tribe Called Quest
street style to stay current and
but still be commercial with
his Young MC-isms. He
shouklajust stayed totally commercial and made a whole
bunch of ends 'cause he ain't
gonna get no respect from the
street for this release. See Ya!
There's a new group
comin' up from the east coast
called C.E.B. with an album
called Countin' Endless Bank
(Ruffhouse/Columbia). Produced by group member Sab ir,
the tracks have a distinctive
kick to them and good high-
end, but the bass is a little bit
lacking for me. Most of the
tracks are good party tracks
about kickin' it in the hood,
using samples you've heard
before with an originality that
keeps them dope. Songs like
"Seems You Forget", "Back
Up In Da Joint," "Get The
Point" and "Pass The B uddha"
are a good start to a hopefully
long career; they gots poten-
Anothercrew on the come
up are The Lords of the
Underground fromNew Jersey. These guys, Doitall, Mr.
Funky, and Lord Jazz, combine old-school breakbeats and
drummachines with heavy bass
with jazz horn samples, and
the occasional jazz bassline for
their debut release Here Come
The Lords (Pendulum/Elektra).
Produced by Marley Marl, eve-
rything's here but there isn't
anything spectacular, beat-
wise. The lyrics, on the other
hand, are pretty dope. With
high bpm, fast lyrics, and the
Lords triple- teamin' on the
choruses, the raps kinda sound
like Onyx without the irritating, rough-throat, fake
dancehall raggamuffin-style
that they tried to borrow. That
style's gonna be played out
fast but the Lords just keep the
lyrics swift-flowin'. Check out
"L.O.T.U.G.,"  "From  Da
Bricks," the title track, "Sleep
for Dinner" and the wicked
"Chief Rocka": "I walk with
the funk, I talk with the funk, I
eat with the funk, I sleep with
the funk, I live for the funk, I
die for the funk..."
Guess what? [Chicken
butt? ed.] Yet another new
group! This time we' re over on
the west coast with a group on
that crazy new tip that the
Pharcyde are the undisputed
masters of. You know, that
crazy shit that shouldn't work
but it does? Where was I? Oh
yea, this new group's called
Y'all So Stupid and their
release is called Van Full of
Pakistans (Rowdy/BMG).
Unkle Buk, Logic, H20, and
Sha Boogie are into that loose,
near freestyle sound for their
raps with the beats being a
combo of some breakbeats
mixed with crazy, unconventional piano, organ, etc. samples. Anyways, most of it is
good with the tide track, "The
Planet," "Super Nigga" and
"On and On" worth checkin'
out. They also cover the current hot topic of tape boodeg-
ging on "Bootleg Beatdown,"
sparked off by BrandNubian's
"Stedy BooUeggin'," but one
thing I really hate about this
release are the 8 wack fake
telephone "interludes" which
appear throughout. And ifyou
can find it, peep out the "Van
Full of Pakistans/The Plant"
40 minute CD single. Now
that's the real dope right there.
"Some say I got more juice
than 2 Pac," Redman said.
Well here's his second release,
Strictly 4 My Niggaz
(Interscope), and he's got alot
of guests backin' him up. In his
quest to put together some real
hardcore-funk rap tracks he's
enlisted the services of such
industry heavyweights as Ice
Cube and Ice-T for "Last
Wordz," Digital Underground
for "I Get Around" and Treach
of Naughty B y Nature, Apache
and Live Squad for "5 Dealy
Venoms". All solid tracks. He's
got his bass down on this release (you can feel it kick on
that other level on almost all of
the tracks) and tliat classic 2Pac
vocal effect of pitch shifting an
octavedown is almost as characteristic as what Too Short
does to his voice. Redman's
still rappm' about how he grew
up without a father, which is
cool, but, for the most part, it's
gettin' a litde bit thin now. A
decent release.
Hittin* ten years since they
dropped their first bomb. Run
DMC are still goin' strong with
their latest, Down With The
King (Profile). The reason this
works is because Run DMC
got themselves a lot of help
from some heavyweights of
the industry, instandy updating their sound to keep with the
times. Thekillertidetrackfea-
tures Pete Rock producin', Q-
Tip doing his thang on "Come
On Everybody," and EPMD
and Kay Gee of Naughty By
Nature having their way behind the board as well. With
the classic Jam Master Jay
scratches and the unique Run
DMC style raps there is no
doubt who you're listening to.
Look, ma, no shoelaces!
Last on the list for this
issue is Da Youngsters with
their debut, The Aftermath
(Eastwest). Adding to the
young-kid mob of rappers including Kriss Kross, Da
Youngsters are more talented
(if they're writing their own
raps) and have a harder sound.
But they're still too young.
Their beats, although they are
hardcore, are very generic and
uncreative, and there are no
dynamics to either the beats or
the raps. Da Youngsters sound
prefabricated like New Edition
and other kid R&B groups of
ten years ago. I'm sure Da
Youngsters will turn out with
their ownflavourin afewyears
andstart makin' their own beats
to complement it, bu t right now
I'll pass.
Well waddaya know?
[Chicken bone? ed.] It's over
for another coupla. Rapper of
the month goes to KAM for
bringin' forth the knowledge
and understanding, as well as
his P-funkified beats. Peace
Out!
T^) EV_M,MONlIf IFTHE (GED)
NON-STOP ALTERNATIVE HORMONES...
MUSIC BY CITR...LIKE YOU CARE
LIVE BANDS EVERY
THURSDAY NIGHT!
ADMISSION IS FREEH
CUB ond
BUM
OLTY CRACKER
iV-fRSHMH^H
Y5TERY MACHINE and
ZEN BUNGALO
COPYRIGHT and
COAL
BANDS START @9:30
THE PIT PUB • IN THE BASEMENT OF THE STUDENT UNION BUILDING, 6138 SUB BLVD. • 604
SAMS
INDIE STREET
HUEVOS RANCHEROS
The Ramones meets Link Wray, in a big-beat
surf'n'destroy mission.
&&%*
TICKLE TRUNK
Tickle Trunk
A smokin' debut EP from those flannel-wearing, java-gulping,
freaky styley Grrls in Tickle Trunk. Raging live Aug. 8 at Under
 The Volcano Festival.
BIG TALL GARDEN
Big Tall Garden
Heavy mental music from North Van's
avant-gardeners.
WADE FREE VANCOUVER
The Club Grotesque Compilation
Finally, a compilation that features Vancouver's new breed of punk. 18
songs by 18 bands, including Redsugar, Sparkmarker and Facepuller.
YTT
Sitting la The Park
A 5-cut EP by one of the city's hottest new urban acts. This
slick production features great male and female vocals mixing
elements of R&B, funk and rap.	
BRATZ INC.
Bad bt Better
'Scorching vocals, great hooks, great looks. Classic rock pop. Definitely stars
in the making.' -Paul Sanderson (leading entertainment lawyer).
Catch their show at the Highwood Festival, Aug. 14.
TEN DAYS UTE
Tee Beys Late
For us to know and you to find out, slob.
Recommended auditory feedstuff.
Show It to me raw, sista quinteta.	
BROCA'SAREA
BmeaeArea
strike a match, guitar-bass-drums.
vancouver-halifax-wlnnipeg
CAT'S GAME
Hey Punk! Be sure to check out Home Sweet Home by
Vancouver's own Cat's Game. Bring the noise Into your
home. On Three Minute Mile Records.	
DOG EAT DOG
'Big, loud, ugly but smart" - The Rocket (Seattle)
'Needs to be played loud' • Alternative Press (Cleveland)
Produced by DOA's Joey Shithead.
ATTENTION ALL BANDS
IF YOU HAVE ANY DEMOS, CDs, OR 7 INCHES AVAILABLE, WE WILL
GLADLYSELLYOURPRODUCTONACONSIGNMENTBASIS.FORFURTHER
INFORMATION, CONTACT SELIM AT 684-3722 (568 SEYMOUR ST.)
imimmmmmMmmmmmjmmim
AVMLABLE M^YMODR^TJOJWNTOWN], FOUR FLOORS OF FUN! Welcome back, children,
and salutes of admiration to all
the Vancouver bands who have
released 7" singles this summer! It's amazing for this town,
let me tell ya. And the good
thing is, on the whole, most of
the singles are of quality
listenin'. Geez, I guess we do
have apurdy good scene going
here. Now all we need are some
First up on the listening
roster is The Hanson Brothers' follow-up 7" to their
amazing debut LP, Gross Misconduct. This mama's on the
Hanson's own Wrong Records
and features two new tunes:
"Brad," a humorous, rockin'-
hockey re-make of
Nomeansno's dark and dreadful "Dad," and "There Goes
That Kid" on the flipside; another bonafide punk-pounder
about some dirty li'l creep.
Total Goombah.
Vancouver's ever-popular
Sparkmarker have released
their second single on Selfless
Records of Texas! Congrats to
the 'Marker for spreadin' out
their extremely powerful,
angst-fuelled punk rage worldwide. Once again, a great packaging job complete
with a beautiful hand-
screened cover. All in
all, a great record.
(Selfless, 2157 Pueblo
Garland, Texas 75040
USA)
Then there's the
combo that surprised
us all, those saucy
bitches we call Cub.
Back for round two in
the 7" circle, the babes
who can do no wrong
have given us Hot Dog
Day : six more songs
of their now-trade-
mark, minimalistic sexy pop
crunch. Like their first, this EP
is as catchy and original as ever
though some of that girly i nno-
cence may be long gone—take
for instance the tune "Through
My Hoop," a song of uncontrolled, uncircumsized, cub-
popping, lust-filled madness.
However great this record may
be, that 20 second, cuddle-core
poem at the end (sung/recited
by some faceless, cutesy audio-boy) makes me wanna barf
all over the seven inches of
hard stuff cub have given me.
By the way, it's Superior and
Huron! (Mint, #669-810, West
Broadway, Vancouver, BC
V5Z 4C9)
Man, oh man, Vancouver bands are really spreading out. The Worst have
released a four song EP
Tunes From The Tomb on
Screaming Apple Records
out of Germany. What we
got here is a snot-filled horror show of garage-rock at
a copy-cat level of brutality. Definitely the most
cryptic thing to come out of
Vancouver since the
Painted Ship sailed up the
charts with "Little White
Lies" in '67. (Screaming Apple, Dustemichtstr. 14, 5000
Koln 41, Germany)
I'm guessing that the
guy(s) at Scratch Records have
a very warped sense of humour
and very tolerable ears to put
out something as musically inept as their new split single by
Nimrod   and   Roughage
Masonna Picture Yoda and
the Terminator getting together
and jamming. The A-side is
pure noise, whereas the B-side
of this unlistenable chunk is a
noise/karaoke version of the
60's hit "Calender Girl." And
that, therefore, is absolute crap.
(Scratch, 317A Cambie St.,
Vancouver, BC V6B 2N4)
Now look out, kids, cuz
from the mountainous wilds of
North Van comes forth the
viking metal band Thorsen,
armed and ready for battle with
their debut single on Tacoma's
Meat Records. Pressed on nothing but the best of viking vinyl, these metalheads attack
three tunes with a lotta rocker
energy and a whole lotta nerve.
"Across The Fjord" is the insta-
hit here: a pop-metal pillage
that would make even the
harshest banger turn the shag
for a second toke. Produced by
Conrad Uno "whilst wearing
helmut." Expect a full-length
horn o' plenty in Sept.. (Meat
Records, 1220 S, 120th St.,
Tacoma, WA 98444 USA)
And the final local offering is from 1992 Shindig winners Brand New Unit. Surely
one of the best bands to win
Shindig in recent years, Brand
New Unit actually represent
what's happenin' in the scene
right now. Reminiscent of old-
school Vancouver punks Curious George, mixed with contemporary Yankee hit-makers
like Green Day or NOFX, BNU
hit the mark with a no-holds-
barred pop punk attack. My
sole complaint is that they
could have just come clean with
two songs; the third tune,
"City," tends to bog down an
already good record. A minor
gripe, nonetheless. (Three
Minute Mile, c/o CJSF Radio,
T.C. 216, SFU, Burnaby, BC
V5A 1S6)
Now let's move on to the
rest of Canada. Eastward into
Edmonton we find Lurch, who
have put out a four song, very
dirty 7" entitled Pet My Pussy.
Check this song title: "Fist Me
With Your Wrist-Watch On"
...no thanks, babe. Gnarly, lo-
fi, riot grrl gone bad rock.
(Smilin' Skull Records, 35
Greystone Cres., Sherwood
Park, AB T8A 3E3)
Over in Toronto and not
quite so abrasive to my ears
are the fabulous Leather Uppers, who, this time, have
done a split single with San
Francisco's Icky Boyfriends.
The Uppers spew out two more
tunes of two-piece (guitar and
drums), trashy, Cramp-style
rock V roll (more surfy than
the first 7") and the Icky Boyfriends have come up with
some cool shit for the flip:
poppy crap (in a good way) in
the vein of fellow-Friscers
Pansy Division or the now-defunct Supercharger. Check out
"Toenails"; a complete Kinks
I rip-off. (Famous Records, P.O.
Box 32, Station P, Toronto,
| ON, M5S 2S6).
Further East still we come
to one of Canada's
more steadily growing labels, the indie-
punk stable of Montreal's En Guard
Records. First up is a
new one by the
Ripcordz, whose
singer Paul Gott runs
the label. Politically-
fuelled, '77-erapunk,
much like the Dickies or the Dead Boys
but more angrier and
Canadian. The three
tunes are primarily
rooted around the de-
Mulroney administration and are so political, in
fact, that they almost come off
like a long, musical guilt trip
directed towards the listener.
Couple that with the singer's
hoarse growl and it's pretty
hard to sit through this one to
the end. Could be that the songs
just aren't that great.
That's where Stand
GT come in. Formally The
Stand, these guys have
changed their name but the
music stays the same: fast,
solid, energetic rock'n' roll.
Check out the catchy snare
poundin' "No Way Out" for
a shakin' good time.
The final installment
from the En Guard label is a
Halifax Punk Rock Split 7"
featuring The Shitheads
and No Offense. You can
probably guess that the
Shitheads are all about
sloppy, shitty hard-core punk.
The recording is ripe and fairly
amusing yet instantly forgettable. Then there's No Offense.
Where do I start? These dudes
have possibly the worst recording sound live ever heard.
Limp, lame punk but I still
manage a grain of respect for
their effort. (En Guard, 1671
St. Hubert, Montreal, PQ H2L
3Z1)
The Maritimes'  redeem-
warm and grungy. It's all here
for the indie-rock enthusiast,
and that's one of the best thi ngs
about Eric's Trip: diversity.
One tune they'll softly play a
fuzzy lullaby and the next
they'll explode with super rock
teismine/jedlousknl
power. A great release and the
kids'll love the title of the last
song: "Dinosaurs." (Sub Pop)
Descending back into the
States, to the inevitable Seattle, first and foremost on the
list is The Falllouts new 7",
"This is Mine b/w Jealous
Kind," on Regal Select
Records. To put it bluntly as
hi»l-IJ:yA-i-<:i.K--»3;1'H*JJ*-l^tril
■
standGT
a&-.
S'-^R^DG-t b„Wefe.'#?/c<(K^r-rATH=
possible this is more amazing
rock 'n' roll from the most underrated band in Seattle. (Regal Select, P.O. Box 986,
Issaquah, WA 98027 USA)
Top Drawer Records are a
fairly new label from Seattle
and so far they're off to a fine
start. Top Drawer's first 7" release happens to be the last
thing we will ever here
from Stumpy Joe, another sadly underrated
Emerald City combo
who just recently broke
up. The A-side of this
farewell is a hard garage rocker titled
"Sugar and Glue" (dig
the Ramones-ish harmonies), and the B -side
is a cool, unplugged
Stumpy doin' John
Sebastion's classic TV
theme "Welcome
Back" (Kotter). A
swell single and a teary
goodbye. *
Next up from Top Drawer
is a split single between San
Fran's Mr. T Experience and
Seattle's Sicko. Now everybody probably knows that I r
ing quality, however, comes in
the form of Moncton's Eric's
Trip and their new 7" EP,
Songs for Chris, on Sub Pop
Records. Now this is good Canadian rock:  original, fuzzy,      ally love MTX, but my one big     pia, WA 98507 USA).
peeve with them is that they
always release the same songs
on different records! For instance, MTX have given Top
Drawer "Together Tonight"
(which is a fantastic song of
ragin' pop-punk), but it's already been on TWO other
records, making this side of the
single pointless! Luckily, the
single Sicko is there to save
with a gleeful punk ditty, entitled "80 Dollars" which they
deliver with honest, youthful
excitement. Screeching Weasel
watch out! (Top Drawer
Records, 4219 5th Ave. NE,
Seattle, WA 9810, USA)
Question: So whattya get
when you take the best of the
New York '70's scene, namely
the Dictators, Ramones, andthe
Heartbreakers, throw 'em into
a blender, put it onto tbe handy
"fuck-up" mode, and send it to
Seattle? Answer: The Thankless Dogs. Given those ingredients you belter believe they
rock, and rock hard! They've
got two kickin' singles out on
Bag Of Hammers so check 'em
out... (Bag Of Hammers
Records, P.O. Box 928, Seattle, W A 98111 USA)
Peach  is  a  new  group
from Seattle which features
Rick Roberts, ex-bass-
of Seattle's  pop-
the Posies, but
this  uninspired  rock
sounds more like Led
Zeppelin than the Posies.  Snore....  (Sylvia
Records, 2319 N. 45th,
Box 157, Seattle, WA
98103 USA)
K Records, out of
Olympia have released
a whole bunch of singles in their International Pop Underground Series that I've
got to catch up on and
Estrus rockers Gravel
(who I believe are from the fine
town of Gig Harbour, Washington) were solicited to put
out #XXIX in the series. "Yesterday, "the A-side, is a mournful, folksy-garage tune a la the
Byrds, andthe B-side, "In Your
Eye," gets it all a-rockin' with
an intense Stooges/Fluid blast
from the crypt. Good stuff.
#XXXI V comes from a bizarre DC combo called The
Brief Weeds who deliver an
EP entitled Songs Of Innocence
And Experience. Beside the full
frontal nudity on the cover of a
man, woman, boy and girl, the
music is a strange mix of sounds
harkening from the Beach
Boys' Pet Sounds, to Spinal
Tap's "Listen To The Flower
People". Fairly psychedelic
and, frankly, boring.
Lastly, my fave new release on the most recent IPU.
Vol. XXXVI, is Tiger Trap's
sweet as honey, all girl, Beat
Happening-meets-Heavenly,
love rockin' 7" slab. Magnetic
as hell and a must have. Oh,
how nice it is to end the column
with such a pleasant gold-
ringer!  (K, Box 7154, Olym
AUGUST © GIRL TROUBLE
New American Shame
(Empty/Cargo)
It must be a real drag having your
name always mentioned on the
tail-end of Seattle. Despite that
Tacoma has the ability to produce rockers! The new album
(their third) shakes yer butt in
new V wondrous ways with a
dozen over-the-top classics of
American music. Girl Trouble's
style is straight-ahead '60s-type
trash rock a la Count Five,
Kingsmen, etc.. Singer K.P.
Kendall has a bellow that would
put Lux Interior to shame and
Kahuna's guitar has this choice
vintage sound most would kill
for. The LP doesn' t let up oi
as the band goes wild in their
frenzy of raw energy, ripping
through songs like "To Tame A
Woman" (featuring 80-year old
go-go dancer Granny Go-Go),
"House of Stone", "Ritual of the
Lame", and... well you get the
idea. Go buy it.
Mofo
JON SPENCER BLUES
EXPLOSION
Extra Width
(Matador)
With this, their third long
player, Spencer & co. move into
some decidedly different
territory from ...Presents Jams
In  The Crypt Style!, namely
blaxploi
soundtracks like Black Caesar,
Dolomite, and Blackbelt Jones
Right off the bat there's
"Afro," the movie's opening
theme, complete with cheese-
driven organ, and "Soul
Typecast" which has Jon
shouting "Don't you know
there's gonna be trouble!"
while Blackbelt Jones takes on
those ten guys in the car wash,
flyin' fist style. Then after along
day's fightin' it's time for
a litde maxin' and relaxin' at
the local jive palace with the
sounds of "Train #2" to keep
things rollin' well into the
night.
But for the secret agents
ofballs-o'-firerawkandrol], the
night never ends, 'cuz
"Inside the World of the Blues
Explosion" can be a cold and
lonely place, if they
don't have damn fine music like
this    to keep them goin'.
Bryce Dunn
SMUGGLERS
In The Hall of Fame
(Popllama)
The Smugglers' latest offering
is a damn fine, post-modem, non-
vinyl(H) musical treat. The
Smugglers' sound has kinda
always been distinctive because
it's a bit of a throwback to the
music coming out of Vancouver
in the late fifties and early sixties
(remember "Latromotion" or the
Nocturnals?). Somehow the boys
have managed to capture that
spunky, innocent, fun-rock
sound and warp it so that it
becomes not-so-innocent,
downright naughty, and
unmistakably contemporary.
What' cha get is this vague feeling
like the Smugglers are an
anachronistic band who have
blended the earnest
unpretentiousness of the fifties
with the frank insolence of the
nineties (Yeah, whatever. I'm so
full of shit). What also makes
this CD post-modemish is its
mix of old and new songs, twenty
in all. There's stuff on here from
the. Atlanta Whiskey Flats and Al
Marineland LP's and the At
Germany 7" as well as seven
brand spankin' new tunes.
There's no point in try ing to select
favourite songs because they are
all so damn good but check out
the exotic ".landolin playing on
track 4 (Bourbon 92), it's
magical. I realiy can't praise this
CD enough. Within the first few
minutes of listening to it, ifyou' re
not dancing, or at least smiling.
then you'd best check yourself
into a home for the terminally
mundane. Even in this postmodern, overly-analytical
world, like the first track says,
"rock n' roll was never this
fun." Cheezy, but true.
Kirsty Smith
ALDIMEOLA'S WORLD
SINFONIA
Heart of the Immigrant
(Justin Time Records)
I've never been to Argentina
and I don't know if I'd really
want to go. What with coup
d'etats, hyper-inflation, soccer
riots and a lack of hockey, I
don't think I could handle it.
However, that's not to say that
Argentina's culture can't be
enjoyed here to a limited extent.
Al Dimeola's latest release,
Heart of the Immigrant, bring
across that culture quite well on
the many taago-esque songs
composed almost exclusively
by the guitarist Dimeola and
songwriter Astor Piazzollo.
This isn't a regionally-
exclusive world music album,
though. Besides the rendition
of "Someday My Prince Will
Come" in tribute to Miles Davis,
performed by guitar and
bandoneon only, as is most of
the album, there's a song which
gives a definite feeling of being
in a Northern Exposure forest
before it died from pollution.
The recording itself is excellent
With a full sound achieved by
the four members of the band,
and perhaps because of that, there
isn't any shredding on par with
much of Dimeola's earlier work.
Instead the playing is slow and
subtle.
The music discussed in
Discorder is considered to be
alternative by most people, but
from a global perspective so much
of it is only a slight variation of
contemporary North American
and European pop/rock. While
Al Dimeola has toyed with some
of its variants from time to time,
this is not one of those times. So,
if you'd like to hear something
that's truly alternative, yet don't
want to go for some "authentic"
local players, this CD is a great
place to start.
Brian Wieser
KING COBB STEELIE
(Raw Energy/A&M)
I saw these guys before I heard
their CD, so I was expecting the
sort-of-Dinosaur-ish stuff they
played hve from the CD. But
King Cobb Steelie are much more
varied and experimental than they
present hve. This Toronto-based
act can combine the Mascis-type
playing and quaalude-induced
vocals with groovy melodies and
original uses of the usual chords.
There are also tons of nifty
sample-based experimental bits
in between such great song tides
as "Dangerous Dangling Arm"
and "Time=Money.
Money=Pizza. (therefore)
Time-Pizza." The band can shift
ON SALE THIS MONTH:
SUPERCONDUCTOR "HitSongsForGirfs $8.78LP/cass;$13.60CO
PAIN TEENS o DesmMe, Iom. $9.65 LP/cass; $13.60 CD
BRATMOBILE ■ Poty Month. $8.78 IP/cass; $11.84 CD
MECCA NORMAL «• laned Dp $9.65 IP/cass; $14.92 CD
RANCID o Rancid. $9.65 LP/cass; $15.79 CD
ROYAL TRUX - Cats M Dogs $9.65 LP/cass; $12,72 CD
VARIOUS ARTISTS « £m$ lite $9.65 cass; $14.92 CD
HUEVOS RANCHEROS. &*# $9.65 cass; $14.92 cd
M00NSHAKE ° Eva Luna $185 LP/cass; $14.92 CD
SWMDl
mm®
HUNDREDS (MAYBE THOUSANDS!) OF
CDs, TAPES, LPs,AND SEVEN INCHES
MARKED TO BELOW WHOLESALE PRICES.
IT'S JUST CfiAZW
PLEA	
Pacific Legal
PHONE
291-0049
VOLUNTEERS
NEEDED
Are you an outgoing, spontaneous
man or woman over the age of 19
with a never-say-die attitude and a
good sense of humour?
We are a non-profit society that
helps young offenders and children
aged 8 to 12 who are at risk of getting
into trouble.
Ifyou have about three hours per
week available for at least the next
six months we'd really like to hear
from you. We believe that one-to-one
interaction with a well-adjusted adult
can improve the behaviour of a
troubled child.
Interested? Please call us today. from melodic pop, to funky,
Furnace Face-ish grooves ,to
strange loops, to heaviness within
the same album. Definitely
worthwhile.
Mofo
FLAT DUO JETS
Safari
(Norton)
This could probably be
considered a "fans-only" LP as
this isn't exactly new material
(we'll have to wait until later this
month on Sky Records), but
instead a smattering of stuff from
previously unreleased lo-fi
cassettes. Don't dismay tho', as
these tunes showcase everything
from Texter Romweber' s multi-
talented musicianship on "Fuzzy
And Wild" and "The Springheel
Jack," to their supercharged hve
shows with "Rock It," "Cast Iron
Arm" and "Mr. Guitar." True
fans will stick with this LP, but if
you're foolhardy enough to get
the CD version you' 11 be dealin'
with 34 tracks of tribal fury! Dig
it!
Bryce Dunn
What he said.
Grant Lawrence
BIG DRILL CAR
Toured [A Live Album]
(Headhunter/Cargo)
Big Drill Car's new live album is,
simply, disappointing. Being
one of the better melodic punk
bands around they should have
been able to do better than this.
Every song on Toured has been
previously released and although
the "Uve" element is manifested
through a rough sound and
minimum of production that
suits the music quite well, the
primary disappointment comes
via the vocalist: he sounds less
inspired. I appreciate Big Drill
Car's honesty in letting their
audience know (read the liner
notes) that the motivation for
releasing this recording was for
the money, but if you're not a die
hard fan I would recommend that
you save your money for now
and wait for their next studio
album.
Vince Yeh
THE FALL
Kimble
(Strange Fruit)
This EP of 4 songs from BBC
radio sessions covering the last
decade was my first introduction
to this British band, albeit 16
years late. Usually rmprejudiced
against all things British, but I
thought I'd see if all the good
things I've heard about the Fall
were true. They are.
The songs are upbeat and
poppy in a loungy way and they
stick in your head like those
Utde bugs from Star Trek that
eat your brain. "Words of
Expectation" is nine minutes long
and it's catchy to the point of
craziness, "Kimble" and "Gut
of the Quantifier" .are both
totaUy rad and Mark E. Smith
kind of rambles on as if he's
talking right to you.
Smash
BUM
Wanna
Sensation
(PopLlama)
After creaming the world with
five 7" singles in their first year
as a "real" group. Bum are back
for the knock-out punch with
their first fuU-length album, apdy
tided "Wanna Smash Sensation",
on Seatde's PopLlama label. AU
of the A-sides from the singles
are here (the B-sides were left
exclusive to 7" vinyl) as are a
slew of brand new Bum style
H.I.T.S. Listen up, indie-rock
fanatics, whether yer into Green
Day, FreeStone, orthe5.6.7.8's,
it's aU here for you on Smash.
Though most easily classified as
"ultra-catchy pop punk", the
thirteen-song CD rolUcks and
roUs with great songwriting, fab
singing and soaring, HoUies-like
harmonies, all the whUe backed
with bad-ass punk rock riffs. Like
a taU glass of "Instant Kool-Aid",
this album is perfect for our
summer and perfectforyou. Let's
Grant Lawrence
Grant's been sniffing a lot of
glue lately.
Paul t. Brooks
FLUF
Mangravy
(Cargo/Head hunter)
Hey! O is big, very big. So is
Fluf s new release, Mangravy. I
like O. I like Fluf. I like
Mangravy. I also liked
Olivelawn, O and Jonny's old
band, whose sound and style
could perhaps be used as a reference to the sounds you'll encounter on Mangravy.: rockin'
and heavy on the melody (that
sort of 60's sort of alternative),
somewhat garagy pop with that
Southern California edge. 12
killer sounds in Fluf s hi-fi, 3
dimensional, fuckophonic sound.
O does the vocals and picks
the thick guitar; Jonny supplies
the bass; Miles on drums. Fluf.
Big. Loud. Cool as fuck and
worthy of your hard earned buck.
Pick it up!
Eric FYH.
VARIOUS ARTISTS
No In-City Venue — A
Compilation of Saint
John Bands
(Underground
Productions)
As one would expect from a
compilation of underground
bands with songs taken from
demos, there are some truly
horrible recordings and some truly
horrible bands but there are a few
standouts which make it still
worthwhile. The music is all
pretty raw and noisy, and it ranges
from hardcore to rock to pop-
punk. Dead Corps, who have a
wildly energetic, early-80's
hardcore-punk sound (MDC,
Black Flag), show a lot of
potential and were the real
memorable band for me off of
this compilation. No In-City
Venue is worth checking out if
just to see what's going on in
Saint John. (P.O. Box 267,
Hampton, New Brunswick EOG
1Z0)
Tom Milne
TSUNAMI
Deep End
(Simple Machines)
Deep End is good, clean, pop
ra\wk, and Jenny and Kirstin's
vocals are mosdy sweet, but
overaU it's boring. The songs are
catchy but don' treaUy work; they
don'thookyou. But, on the other
hand, you might like it for those
Soya Sauce
more intense than Helmet wished
they ever could be. But damn the
comparisons, Passive Restraints
rocks hard! Total satisfaction absolutely guaranteed.
Eric FYH
BILLY CHILDISH
Native American Sampler
- A History 1983-1993
(Sub Pop)
With over 50 recordings to his credit,
it probably wasn't too hard to
compile 18 tracks that could fittingly
be placed on an album tided Native
American Sampler. This album
spans 10 years of BiUy Chddish's
career and includes two of his poems
and his contribution ofthe cover art
(which rules). The songs are
primarily stripped-down, low-fi,
rockabilly-ish ditties with a groovy
hook. Some of the songs are
influenced by native music butmost
of the rhythms just remind me of
classic rock songs that "I can't
remember. And, hey, the profits go
to Survival International!
THE FALLOUTS
Here I Come And Other
Hits
(Estrus)
As I've stated before, and will
again, these rockers are one of
Seattle's most underrated
combos. The Fallouts have been
around for years and have just
recendy come out from the dark
and into the shade with a new
album of bits on a label-branch
of Sub Pop called Super Electro.
But that ain't this album. This
one's fiUed with old, unreleased
FaUouts songs dating from '86
to '89 and what a rock V roU
feast it is. Super-psycho freak-
beat '60's punk is the sound;
great harmonies and great songs.
Why these seventeen (!) songs
weren' treleased when they were
recorded is anyone's guess, but
they are here now. HeU, this could
be the Kinks' first LP if it weren't
for this sucker's emotion and
raw, unbridled energy. So getoff
your ass and catch up with the
FaUouts.
Grant Lawrence
CLUTCH
Passive Restraints
(Earache/Relativity)
For those unexposed to Clutch a
typical initial response upon
hearing Passive Restraints could
be "What bell hath Helmet
wrought?" Yeah, Clutch are
somewhat Helmet-like in sound
and structure, but beyond that
comparison is the basis for something more. Driving, pounding,
hard hitting, mucho heavy and
I &yfOS^kOe7^ 1
CANADA'S LARGEST AND BEST KNOWN RECORD STORE
rmhb^0'
■ AVAILABLE AT 568 SEYMOUR S ^l&1&ak//fof
THE BREEDERS - Pod	
BUTTHOlf SURFERS - In
CHARLATANS Ul
CHILD-AN -
SAIVTS HAS
a_![rtet__i_a________i
CAN'T FIND IT? Sam's has Western Canada's Lai
/lost Comprehensive Request Service.
ON SALE AT 568 SEYMOUR ST. (DOWNTOWN) ONLY. FOUR FLOORS OF FUN! Butthole Surfers
Stone Temple Pilots
fIREHOSE
Basehead
PNE Aqua stage
Wednesday, July 7
Due to public transit, I missed the one band
of the evening that I really wanted to see
(Basehead) so the evening started off on a
bad note and got progressively worse. Billed
as the "Butthole Barbeque," I was shocked
to find no barbeque-just agreasy concession
stand with plenty of overpriced slimy shit
passing as food.
After sitting for what seemed an
eternity, the 1040 MC announced that
fIREHOSE would either be late or a no-
show 'cause their van had broken down
somewhere in the U.S.A.. Instead, some
freak-awful band from God-knows-where
went on stage. Booed by the crowd because
of their lameness, members of the audience
were pulled on stage to do their own fill-in.
The result was a putrid sounding, but entertaining set. fIREHOSE eventually showed,
to the delight of the crowd, and played a
weak 4 song set.
After another long break theStone
Temple Pilots appeared, featuring a grotesque Gwar-looking figurine as a prop that
1 kept expecting to do something, but it just
II all it:
s. STP w
awful. Hello wannabe Pearl JamlTheir songs
sounded all the same, and their show went on
so long I eventually plugged into my
walkman. The vocalist's disco moves were
quite brilliant however, and he was cute.
Butthole Surfers were on last.
According to my friend Carol, who was up
front taking pictures, it was a miracle the
lead singer was even standing he was so
gooned. Their set contained some older hits
mixed with new tunes from Independent
Worm Saloon, "Goofy's Concern" being
one of the crowd's favourite picks, who
enthusiastically packed the floor. Big strikes
against Gabby, who used the voice box machine like it was a new toy in the hands of an
annoying child, and the the light show, which
was pointless as the sun had barely sunk
below the horizon. Overall, anyone who
wear, nd heeb too high to play guitar in.
Kreviss, the only Canadian entry for
the night, was all female except for their
fucking drummer. Their Sub Pop single is
great. Their Scratch single is great. They've
played some great shows; this wasn't one of
them. There were numerous technical problems, and tbe fact that this was their first
show as a (god forbid) four-piece was not
helpful to their cause. StilL they were the
band most devoted to volume and power that
night, and the crowd liked them. NEVER get
a BOY to tune your instruments for you.
After hearing all my friends call
Bratmobile a worthless abombination, I was
preparing for a bunch of humourless caterwauling idiots with out-of-tune guitars in one
hand and bloody scissors in the other. Fortunately, they were tight, funny, driven, catchy,
and all female except for their fucking drummer. Their guitarist had absolutely mastered
the E-string, and I'm not even making fun of
her. Yeah, here was some caterwauling, but
it fit in perfectly with their garage-rock style,
and they all seemed so happy and jumpy that
it was hard not lo like them. Kindamakesyou
sick, huh? Anyway, a near faultless performance from a band I expected a lot less of.
Someone smart should bring them to Vancouver before they all take ecstasy and go
Jacky
Polly Joan photo by Joel Fraser
paid the ticket price got completely burned:
the Butthole Barbeque was one lame-ass
excuse for a show.
Svea
PJ Harvey
Moonshake
Commodore Ballroom
Friday July 8,1993
Here it is, quick and painless. I got there a bit
late, but saw most of Moonshake. I liked
them a lot. Interesting songs with a cool
groove, baby. No star-trips, man, just a band
rockin' out. I'd explain what they sound
like, but I can't be bothered. Now it's your
problem.
PJ Harvey. Lady Harvey. The band
Harvey. Don't love 'em. Don't hate 'em.
Good songs. Bad songs. Waay too much
hype. She came on late. Too late. Smiled too
much — where's the attitude, the anger?
Seemed reserved, didn't rock out enough.
Faithful (boring) renditions of hit tunes. Lot's
o' hero-worship from the crowd. Is she deserving? I dunno, not yet, I think.
Mr. Normalskull
Girlschock '93
Bratmobile
Kreviss
Hussy
Show Off Gallery
Bellingham, WA
Saturday, July 9
The Show Off Gallery is a small building
pretty close to the centre of Bellingham and
run by some fairly nice people. It's all ages,
and while I was there, the toilet seat seemed
to stay down and clean.
Hussy was the first up, all female
except for their fucking drummer, and an apt
comparison would be to locals cub, although
Hussy seemed to spend a Uttle less time
worrying about whether or not you can sing
their songs around a campfire. If they put a
song that I think was called "Pretty Boy" on
a single, I'll buy it. A good messy guitar
sound and some catchy songs sum them up,
unless you want to hear about wigs, under-
Dick Dale and the Dettones
The Surfdusters
The Evaporators
Commodore Ballrom
Wednesday, July 21
My evening started out early at the Cargo-
sponsored Sub Pop party al the Barracuda
Club. And what a bizzare party it was ... It's
purpose was to actually promote a Sub Pop
gig happening a week later at the Town
Pump. Were the Sub Pop bands (Pond, Eric's
Trip) there? No. They were somewhere in the
middle of the prairies! Were they giving
away tons of free Sub Pop shit and beer? Oh
yeah. And that's why me and about a hundred
other "losers" were on hand. Of course the
free hootch ran out after about an hour (big
surprise), so it was off to the Commodore to
witness the always-entertaining Evaporators
with Nardwaur the Human Serviette on lead
vocals and organ. They played all their
warped-garage 'hits' including "Winnipeg
'64", "france" and the super-trooper dedicated to Dick Dale, "Welcome to My Castle".
Enjoyable were also Nardwaur's organ dives
and his pathetic, out of breath, between song
The Surfdusters were up next, and
since I had never seen them before, I was a
Uttle shocked at how ancient they are. However old they may be (50s or 60s?), they still
managed to pound out a pretty cool surf beat.
But geez, the woman on keyboards looked
like she should have been filing library books
instead of on stage with a rock band.
Then there was the mighy Dick Dale;
a man who hasn't cut his hair since 79, a man
who has just put out a new album (though it's
the first in 18 years),aman who for the better
part of tbe last 18 years has raised lions,
tigers, and jaguars, a man who is ultra-pro-
environment, a man who thinks the Vietnam war was justified but what was the
most important trait of Mr. Dick Dale? In
1956 he created the music called "surf," and
on Wednesday, July 21,1993 Dick Dale, in
his first Canadian performance ever, showed
us kids he can still crank it out. He played a
ton of songs including great old ones Uke
the rockin' "Miserlou" and "Let's Go
Trippin'," phis fab new ones Uke "Caravan" off the new album. As for the Del
Tones, diey were a basic lame backup band;
a guy who looked Uke a melalhc Tootsie on
bass, and some teen-aged drummer boy.
But it was Dick Dale's show, and lhat's
where the audience's attention was. HeU,
he even signed autographs for an hour after
the show. 1 guess I'm glad I actuaUy got to
see this bizarre, unique and underrated star
Grant Lawrence
The The
Swell
Orpheum Theatre
Thursday, July 22
Most of us struggle for recognition; but
some are born to genius— Matt Johnson is
one of those people. A humble and introspective lad, Johnson, the brain-child behind The The, is not so much a powerful
presence as he is a craftsman who has perfected his trade and thus must initiate flaw.
His voice, as enticing and effortlessly poetic as ripples from a faUen leaf, is the tool
from which the tapestry of his master
songwriting is drawn. His songwriting
weaves pain and passion— emotions usu-
aUy left cowering in opposite comers of the
heart's darkest embers— into a silky thread
with a non-chalance that is frighteningly
unnerving.
The The commands an audience,
rather lhan performs for one, with a precision not unlike the tide's ebb and flow
pledge to its lunar chaperone. Done with an
elaborate texture to their music, The The
capture the emotional essence of each note
from every instrument and voice and encapsulate those notes, in turn those instruments
and voices, into an autonomous script, limited only by the song they are a piece of.
Each song is therefore a composition of
several layers and that's why it is so easy to
enrapture yourself in the piano of "Lung
Shadows," the harmonica of "Slow Emotion Replay," the percussive rhythm of "Sodium Light Baby," or the vocal tn_ce of
"Bluer Than Midnight" while remaining
completely obUvious to the song's instru
mental counterparts.
However, just prior to The The's
departure from the stage before they were
harkened back for a deserved encore, aU this
was thrown to the wind in an ignorant, and
quile frankly arrogant, attempt at some pub-
style rock. If Matt Johnson believes that the
audience at his concerts are there lo hear and
see him cany on in some self-righteous,
Pogues-cum-Wonderstuff fashion, then he's
holding some hoUow thoughts that are only
partiaUy correct: Malt Johnson is making the
audience perform everytime he proudly
slunks to front-and-centre, and only the naive wiU be able to appreciate and understand
the reasons for which The The depart from a
mesmerizing performance into sheer insipidness. Nonetheless, beautiful words in battered times for the beat(en) generation.
Paul t. Brooks
Shadowy Men On A Shadowy
Planet
Girl Trouble
cub
Commodore Ballroom
Saturday, July 24
And we'll have fun, fun, fun, 'till Daddy
takes the T-bird away...
1 was worried that cub would get lost
in the large confines of the Commodore, but
I shouldn't have been worried; the cubsters
were in form. There was much throwing of
candy, (gentle) moshing and even somebrand
new tunes. Their tour with the Smugglers
has done cub a lot of good; they were a lot
tighter, and it hasn't hurt sales. According lo
Mint Bill, cub's latest offering "Hot Dog
Day", is inlo ils second pressing of a thousand copies.Nowthat'salot of warm fuzzies.
Girl Trouble had a lot of moshing as
well, lt was a bit of a strange sight to see
people carried on top of the crowd to primo
surf rawk. The lead singer reminded me of a
skinnier, less-repulsive Lux Interior, with
his unhealthy pallor and pelvic thrusts, and
the music was pure surf. Girl Trouble were
so tight, they came on aboul fifteen minutes
after cub, which was a nice change from the
usual interminable between-set waits.
Then, Shadowy Men On a Shadowy
Planet, a trio of guys lhat make you proud to
be Canadian, eh. The crowd was a sea of
blissful hopping bodies, and with good reason— Shadowy Men are tons of fun! Everybody went predictably berserkers at the "Kids
in the HaU" theme, and other faves like "Five
Americans, Six Canadians." The show was
marred halfway by an audience member
being crushed against the barricade and first
aid people were caUed in. But the show did
go on lo wild acclaim; you had to be pretty
hard-hearted not to have enjoyed yourself.
The encore consisted of easily recognizable
riffs, such as "Layla", interspersed with Shadowy Men snippets.
And we'll have fun, fun, fun, 'till
Daddy takes the T-Bird away ....
June Scudeler
AUGUST  @ ANOTHER
ETTWERK
SAT AUGUST 7
NOON - SsPIWI
1250 West 6th Ave
(next door to mushroom studios)
CDS, VINYL, SHIRTS, POSTERS, STICKERS, CASS, RARE STUFF, POSTCARDS, & MORE BY:
SKINNY PUPPY, SARAH McUCHlAN. CONSOLIDATED
MYSTERY MACHINE, FRONT 242, GINGER, MOEV
LAVA HAY, TEARGARDEN, ROSE CHRONICLES,
SEVERED HEADS, MC 900FT JESUS,
MANUFACTURE, HILT, itch, Etc. _.c.
warn
__■
: So, it's the 90's, man, technology
marches on, and the grabbing hands
that grab all they can have come up
with two bold formats for you to
listen to yer music on. Yup, Sony-
Corp and PhilipsCorp have, repec-
tively, brought forth the MiniDisc
and Digital Compact Cassette in the
hopes that you, the music buying
public (or, as they put it, the sheep),
will drop the shekels for their product and forsake the other.
It's a bugger when companies
come out with these new formats,
witness what happened when CDs
came out. The propaganda machine
told us all CDs would give us far
better audio, would get cheaper,
wouldn't scratch, etc., and we fell
for it Even vinyl purists were forced
to hunt around for a shop that still
carried records or take the plunge
into CD. Since then we've found
that if a CD gets scratched that song
simply will not play or will loop
infinitely, none of which is as cool
as a scratched record can be. CDs
certainly aren't cheaper for us. I
mean, if Facepuller and Club Grotesque can sell CDs at decent prices
and have a good chance at breaking
;ven, what with the high costs of
small runs, then the majors, with
their own pressing plants, can put
discs out at 1/3 of their present cost
and still make scads of cash (but
don't hold your breath waiting for
the greedy fucks to drop prices!)
Now that we have essentially
become hostage to CDs these two
moguls have decided we, as consumers, need more ways to drop
dollars. Here's a capsule descrip-
Mini-Disk — Sony's got this thing
which is a little smaller than a 3 1/2"
floppy disc, supposedly for increased
portability. There are three pros to
this format: 1) the discs are small; 2)
they record digitally up to 74 minutes; 3) well, the discs are small. On
the downside, the players are in the
$700 range and a recorder will cost
you about 900 clams (I don't have a
price on the walkman version yet).
Also, remember, this is a Sony product, the Einstiens that invented Beta
and the Elcaset (nobody believes
that this existed but I did some research and found a photo circa 1977.
Sony figured that if they used 1/4"
tape and jammed it into a humungous cassette styleshell, audiofreaks
would buy thousands— I doubt they
sold more than 500 machines), both
of which died with a whimper.
Digital Compact Cassette
Philips is behind this one. Basically,
this is a cassette that can record
digitally. The pros: 1) they will play
analog cassettes so it's not like you
gotta throw them out; 2) they record
longer than MiniDisks; 3) they'll fit
in your cassette case. The cons (no
pun intended): 1) a recorder cost-
about $900; 2) no-one knows how
well they play your analog cassettes;
3) pre-recorded titles run you $20 a
pop-
There you go. Now most of you, like
me, are in no position to even think
about buying one of these damn
things unless you use your student
loan money or are in the sex trade
industry. But trip on this: the digital
revolution hasn't preserved any
warmth to the music the way analog
did that's why most recordings are
done analog up to the mastering
stage. Also, the fact that there is no
hiss to warn you how loud the song
is gonna be can blast your ears out
(owners of Discmans can vouch for
this)! And, finally, we've been
through the 8-track, LP, cassette,
and CD already, do we really need to
drop another format for a new one?
It's time to say "Whoa, hold off for
a decade or two! Buying systems
every few years is a waste erf money,
I should know, I have four computer
systems at home none of which is as
current as they need to be. However,
music has a Uttle more longevity
than data so it is possible for us to not
buy either of these new devices until
we are forced to by the shops (like
they did with CDs.) Another thing to
wait for is to see if the record labels
will freak out over this like they did
with DAT recorders. I figure DCC
will win over the MiniDisk, just
because of its compatiblity.
I know what you're saying,
you're saying "Format, schmormat,
get on to the LPs, 'cause all I got is
one of those Candle stereos where
the turntable is set in the same box as
everything else, man!" Well, count
yourself lucky if you got one because those truly horrifying things
at least have a 78 setting! Since I've
blown most of my space with column, I just have enough room to tell
you about a couple of tapes I just got.
Both of these tapes come from
our friendly city to the south, the
home of that shining blight of the
future, Microsoft. Of course, I
Seattle!
The first tape comes from Richard Karty, and it's only about five
months late, meaning Richard has
the same reliable qualities as I do!
Definitely worth the wait, the first
part, creatively titled Where Have
All the Stainless SteelMartini Pitch-
"Consider The Alternative"
f "jr ;  Fogg's Captive Bead
\^j    Jewellery Company
Piercings atThe Underground
" "no attitude"^ guaranteed
Phone: 322-8924
ers Gone, features a veritable cornucopia o' corn, with an assortment of
spy music (including the classic
"Martini Built For Two" and the
creatively tided "Theme", from the
Man From Uncle soundtrack),
choice Martin Denny and Sergio
Mendes cuts (the uncrowned kings
of EZ Listening; any of their LPs are
worth their weight in cubic zirconia)
and littered with selections from
Astrid Gilbrto and the Breakfast at
Tiffany's soundtrack. Mr. Karty recommends a cocktail while listening
but I suggest tiki torches to make the
atmosphere complete. Part Two,
He Uo. Future!, is culled from some
amazing forward-thinking LPs circa the "Dry Look", "Cool Whip" era
(as RK would say). The high points
include moon landing tapes from
the Apollo 11, "UFOs" by the Undisputed Truth, a Motown act with
(no he!) spherical, stark white Afros
and metallic designs on their pusses,
as well as Shostako vitch done on the
Moog synth. And let's not forget
"The Girl From Impanema" with
the song stylings of Richard Hayman and His Genuine Electric Latin
Love Machine!!! Richard ends off
the tape with Music From the Golden Age of Nudity: neither of the
choice, rare groove cuts Uke Ohio
Players' "Skin Tight" and Brass
Construction's "Peekin"' won points
with the more conscious sistahs,
lemme tell you! This is an excellent
tape, and twisted Richard promises
The last tape comes from Peter Vollan who does a 'zine called
Culture Schuck. It's an erratic blend
of weirdness that is just as great as
Ric's, though not with as many cuts.
His tape starts with a few cuts from
Micky Mouse Disco ("Macho
Duck"— which turned a few heads
when I blasted it in my long-suffering girlfriend's car last week), Sesame Street Fever, and Chipmunk
Punk. Bill Cosby is in the house with
a torturous, Barry Whitc-ish "ASim-
ple Love Affair" and "What D'Ya
Think About Licken My Chicken1?"
done JB-style— these were from
Disco Bill, apparently done in Bill's
lean times. Truly excruciating. Peter shifts 180 degrees by giving the
sect I love to hate some time with an
excerpt of "Battlefield Earth," the
soundtrack to one of L Ron Hubbard's more famous tree-wasters.
Genuine Musak follows before he
drifts back to matters spiritual, closing off with a Mormon clip. Sid-
two is Story Time, with some
Space:1999,SixMiUionDoUarMan,
Scooby Doo, and some indecipherable Spanish comedian telling dirty
jokes (I think!). You Seattle guys
are very odd.
Thanx to both of you. Now,
I' d print their addresses if I had tlieir
permission, so you could trade tapes,
whatever, with them, but you'll have
to wait 'til later for that. Keep the
tapes coining. I think the next tape I
get together will be the Reader Selected Edition, so hurry! Send
reqests, comments/abuse, money for
tapes, etc., to:
Hey Mofo!
2054 E. Broadway
Vancouver, BC
V5N1W7
PRIZE FUN!!!!! The person who writes from the furthest
locale will also recieve a canned meat of my choice as an
added bonus!!! Deadline is Roctober31, 1993.
MiniDisk vs. DCC Comparison Chart
M____uk _2_£
Is the DCC/Disk easy to lose?
ves ves
Do you need a magnifying glass to read the liner notes?
ves ves
Do the companies have subsidiaries in thedefense industry (i.e. do they make bomb parts?)
ves vup
Can you put it near a magnet without fucking it up?
nope uh-uh
Is MeatIoaf*s Bat Out of Hell available on the format?
oh veah    sure
AUGUST ^ AUGUST 93 LONG VINYL 50,
1 NOMEANSNO
2 URGE OVERKILL
3 DICK DALE
4 BUM
5 BOSS HOG
6 BAD RELIGION
7 SUICIDAL TENDENCIES
8 BAND OF SUSANS
9 FLAMING UPS
10 THE CRANES
FUGAZI
12 KILL SYBIL
13 CRACKERBASH
14 FISHBONE
15 FLUF
16 JAAP BLONK
_OWY MEN ON A...
18 SEBADOH
WHY DO THEY CALL ME..?
SATURATION
TRIBAL THUNDER
WANNA SMASH SENSATION
SATELLITE HEART
FOREVER
IN ON THE KILL TAKER
KILL SYBIL
TIN TOY
GIVE A MONKEY A BRAIN...
MANGRAVY
FLUX-DE-BOUCHE
SPORT FISHIN'
BUBBLE & SCRAP-
ALTER TENT
GEFFEN
HIGHTONE
POPLLAMA
RCA
DISCHORD
EMPTY
EMPTY
COLUMBIA
>N SPENCER BLUES EXPLOSION EXTRA W
20 BOB'S YOUR UNCLE
21 DENNIS BROWN
22 THE SMUGGLERS
23 PHLEG CAMP
24 JAZZ FUTURES
25 WALT MINK
26 BIG DRILL CAR
27 BAABAMAAL
28 ACTION SWINGERS
29 IE PHAIR
30 MECCA NORMAL
31 MATTHEW:
CAGES
COSMIC FORCE
IN THE HALL OF FAME
YA'RED FAIR SCRATCH
UVE IN CONCERT
BAREBACK RIDE
TOURED
LAMTORO
DECIMATION BLVD
EXILE IN GUYSVILLE
JARRED UP
ALTERED BEAST
STAALPLAAT
CARGO
SUBPOP
MATADOR
ZULU
HEART BEAT
POPLLAMA
CARGO
RCA
CAROUNE
HEADHUNTER
MANGO
CAROLINE
MATADOR
32
TIGER TRAP
TIGER TRAP
K
33
GURU
JAZZMATAZZ VOLUME I
EMI
34
GRLTROUBLE
NEW AMERICAN SHAME
EMPTY
35
ROYALTRUX
CATS AND DOGS
DRAG CITY
36
VARIOUS ARTISTS
YEARBOOK
RASTACAN
37
HLLBILLY FRANKENSTEIN
HYPNOTCA
ZONTAR
38
BILY CHlDtSH
NATIVE-AMERICAN SAMPLER
SUBPOP
30
THE TEAR GARDEN
SHELA UKED THE RODEO
NETTWERK
40
AUFARKATOURE
THE SOURCE
HANNIBAL
41
THE FAIL
INFOTAINMENT SCAN
MATADOR
42
VERVE
A STORM H HEAVEN
VERNON YARD
43
THETUUPS
JACK MAG
SONIC BUBBLEGUM
44
C.E.B.
COUNTtN' ENDLESS BANK
RUFFHOUSE
45
NEW MODEL ARMY
THE LOVE Of HOPELESS CAUSES
EPIC
46
ANTENNA
HIDEOUT
MAMMOTH
47
MONSTER MAGNET
25 TAB
CAROLINE
48
HHEAD
FREMAN
JAM
40
PAIN TEENS
DESTROY ME LOVER
TRANCE
50
x
HEY ZEUSJ
MERCURY
AUGUST 93 SHORT VINYL 35
1 SMASHING PUMPKINS
2 CUB
3 SPARKMARKER
4 CLUTCH
5 BRAND NEW UNIT
6 KMFDM
7 STAND GT
8 LEATHER UPPERS/CKY BOY...
0 ADICKDID
10 LEONARD CONAN
11 SEA MONKEYS
12 TRULY
13 MADDER ROSE
14 THE SNEETCHES
15 QUAHOGS
16 PSYKOSONIK
17 THE SPn MUFFINS
18 WARD
23 WICKER BISCUIT
24 THUMPER
25 UKE WOW
26 THE CAROLINE KNOW
27 VERONICA LAKE
28 LANDFILL
29 DON CABALLERO
30 NIMROD/ROUGHAGE
•CHERUB
HOT DOG DAY
PLUG
PASSIVE RESTRAINTS
■SUMMERTIME'
SUCK-
TOASTING GEARS
FOUR SONG T
ALL AMERICAN GIRL
PUB SLOP 7'
BAD HAIRCUT
LESLIES COUGHING UP BLOOD
UGHTS GO DOWN
AND I'M THINKING
GIAZE
SILICON JESUS
KIT PICKLES
MUSTANG/ BOOM
DECISION 93
COOL CHICK *59/ MOMENTUM
CRANIUM MELTDOWN
CHOPSOCKY
BASEMENT
HARD
WHACKED IN WACO
CINNAMONTOAST
SUB POP
ROCKVILLE
BUS  STOP
31   J
E BIBLE
32 '68 COMEBACK
33 THE ROPERS
34 SPRINKLER
35 THE WORST
SEE ME WHEN YOU ARE
SUNSET HILLS
OUR CABALLERO
GETTINGRAINEDON/CALENDARGRL
FISH FARMER
TUNES FROM THE TOMB
DIAMANTE  NEGRO
MUD
EN   GUARD
SLUMBERLAND
HOMO HABILUS
ALIAS
GRITTY   KITTY
SHIVER
PSYCHO TEDDY
BUS STOP
BUS STOP
PLUMB
TOUCH AND GO
SCRATCH
KOKOPOP
SUB   POP
SLUMBERLAND
SU8   POP
SCREAMING APPLE
AUGUST  tt  INDIE
HOME  JOBS
1 THE REAL MACKENZIS
1 AM A SCOT
2 VNAK3RETTES
FISHING FOR A TROUT
3 TOE LIQUOR
SYLVIA
4COAL
ACE Of SPADES
5 FOREST LAWN
SIMMERING  HATE
• DEPROGRAMMERS
WASH  YOUR   BRAIN
7 WINDHAM HELL
ENTER THE GATES
• LEATHER UPPERS
DON'T  LIKE   YOU  (VERY  MUCH)
• THE UNGRATEFUL LMNG
BORN    TO    BE    DEFILED
10 STRAIN
CATARACT
11 HORSEY
GO   LIGHT
12 FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE
LOVE   ONLY   PAIN
13 BLUSH
ICABOD
14 TERROR T AND THE BEAT ASSASSINATOR
TRUE 2 THA GAME
1S ROTORCLOUD
1    WAS    ONLY    JOKING
10 WRETCHED ETHYL
NUTHING   TO   DEEP
17 PLAGUE AT ETHYLS
LAND OF LALA
1* THE SPOERS
NO   EXPECTATIONS
1* HONEY
JELLYBITCH
20 SURFDUSTERS
SAVE THE WAVES
21 FOURTH MAN
PROGRESS
22SNOWDOGS
MISUNDERSTANDING
23 THE WELFARE STARLETS
ANTEATER  3
24 THE INBREDS
FINAL WORD
2S TAKE THAT
PRESSURE
26 THRILSQUAD
LOVE    AND    RAIN
27 THE GYPSY SPRAY KINGS
THEYRE    GONNA    SPRAY
_• SNUS ENVY
THE   SHRIEKING   VIOLETS
20 GARDEN OF EARTHLY DELIGHTS
CITY  OF   FLIES
30 DARKEST OF THE HILLSIDE THICKETS
TARRED AND FEATHERED
31 BLAISE PASCAL
SPOTLIGHT KIDD
32 MANC OBSESSION
ANCIENT CELTIC DRINKING PARTY
33 UNSCENE
SURFACE
34 MEET DAISY
GO  GO  ROUND
33 NORTH AMERICAN BISON
CHURCHDOM
GREYHAIRS REMEMBER
DiSCORDER CHARTS 10 YEARS AGO
1 YELLO
YOU    GOTTA    SAY    YES
2 TALKING HEADS
SPEAKING    IN    TONGUES
3 VIOLENT FEMMES
VIOLENT    FEMMES
4 KING SUNNY ADE
SYNCHRO-SYSTEM
5 NEW ORDER
POWER, CORRUPTION AND LIES
6 MALCOLM MCLAREN
RUCK   ROCK
7 THE CREATURES
FEAT
8 AZTEC CAMERA
HIGH LAND, HARD RAIN
8 SOUTHERN DEATH CULT
SOUTHERN   DEATH   CULT
10 DANIELLE DAX
POP-EYES
STYMIE
w**e**e\*e\*h       -r-% We***h**h\*Mm
l^* JriM
RIKKI TIKKI TAVI
II  fHSil
TEN  POUND  BAG
PIG ON FIRE
___-
RHINO   HUMPERS
M t               srl
FUDD
m'       m
KATIES   DIMPLES
m        J
WINDWALKER
1 _L   _■
KILL  SYBIL
■l_&_I_______I
SEND $10 US ($12 CDN.VCD
OR $7 US ($9 CDN.yCASS
ptythtoPmulChurchll
Abo avail:
CHOICE BOVINE CUTS
RIKKI TIKKI TAVI
1910 VILTER-7" -$4 PPD
P.O. BOX 5738 KENT, WA 98064 DATEBOOK
1 SUN Bad Brains with the Didjits. Trigger Happy and Shades of
Culture at the Town Pump... Orquesta B.C. Salsa with Esplrltu Libre
at the Commodore... movies of the week at the Railway... Powell
Street Festival at Oppenheimer Park... Summer of Love '93 featuring Pierce, One, DJ Dimltri, Doc Martin. DJ Magnus, off Highway
99... Penn & Teller at the Vogue... Michelle Mares piano recital at
Ryerson United Church... In-Fest at High River Rodeo Grounds
(Alberta)... Henry V (7pm) and Much Ado About Nothing (9:35pm)
at the Ridge... A Sunday in the Country (7:30pm) and Let Joy Reign
Supreme (9:20pm) at Pacific Cinematheque... Sorting through the
Seventies exhibition continues at Contemporary Art Gallery (until the 14th)... Celebrating the Stitch at Canadian Craft Museum
(until Sept. 8th)...
2 MON Transit Police with Johnny Trout at the Railway... Penn &
Teller at the Vogue... Manufacturing Consent: Noam Chomsky and
the Media (7:30pm) at the Ridge... A Sunday In the Country (7:30pm)
and Let Joy Reign Supreme (9:20pm) at Pacific Cinematheque-
Ban Clearcuts in Clayoquot Sound March and Rally at MacBlo HQ
(noon, 925 West Georgia)...
3 TUE Johnny Clegg & Savuka with Murray Attaway at the Vogue-
Cruel 70s Disco at the Commodore... Transit Police with Johnny
Trout at the Railway... Sonny Rhodes & the Texas Twisters at the
Yale... Phat Groove with DJ Czech at Graceland... The Didjits with
The Muffs and Sinister Six at the Offramp... Manufacturing Consent: Noam Chomsky and the Media (7:30pm) at the Ridge...
4 WED CiTR HOT WEDNESDAYS AT THE PIT PUB... Angellque Kidjo.
Baaba Maal, Ismael Lo at the Commodore... Elizabeth Fischer at
the Railway... Sonny Rhodes & the Texas Twisters at the Yale...
Daryl Jahnke Trio at Alma Street Cafe... Reggae Night with CiTR's
own DJ George Barrett at Graceland... The Cherubs with Voodoo
Gearshift, Slappywhite and Sore Jackson at the Offramp... Last
Call at Maud's (7:30pm & 9:15pm) at the Ridge... Fahrenheit 451
(7:30 & 9:35pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
5 THU CiTR PRESENTS WOMEN OF REGGAE FEATURING JUDY MOWATT.
SISTER CAROL AND SISTER BREEZE AT THE T OWN PUMP... CiTR PRESENTS
THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS AT THE COMMODORE... Sub-Sonic Thursdays
at the Pit Pub with cub and Bum... The Rhinos at the Railway... Miles
Black at Alma Street Cafe... Sonny Rhodes & the Texas Twisters at
the Yale... Back to Bassix with T-Bone at Graceland... Zeke with
Freakscene, Deflowers and Those Who Dig at the Offramp... Last
Call at Maud's (7:30pm & 9:15pm) at the Ridge... Truth or Dare
(9:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque... Embroidered Traditions exhibition/demonstration at Canadian Craft Museum...
6 FRI CiTR PRESENTS X WITH BEST KISSERS IN THE WORLD AT THE TOWN
PUMP... Sonny Rhodes & the Texas Twisters at the Yale... J.J. Cale
with John Hammond at the Commodore... Happy Man at the
Railway... Wild Cherry with DJ Czech at Graceland... MDC with
JFA. Impatient Youth, White Trash Debutantes and Jack Killed Jill
at the Offramp... The Shunning at Centennial Auditorium
(Abbotsf ord)... The Miracle (7:30pm) and The Crying Game (9:25pm)
at the Ridge... The Young One (7:30pm) and "0* (9:20pm) at
Pacific Cinematheque...
7 SAT CITR PRESENTS THE CATHERINE WHEEL WITH SLOWDIVE AT THE
HUNGRY EYE... The Clergy with Poo Rol Dlu and Soul Food at
Worldshakers... Byron Lee & the Dragonaires with the Jumbalassy
Brass Band at the Commodore... Sonny Rhodes & the Texas Twisters at the Yale... Happy Man at the Railway... Noah's Arc with
CiTR's own DJ Noah at Graceland... DOA with The Fumes at the
Offramp... The Shunning at Centennial Auditorium (Abbotsford)...
The Miracle (7:30pm) and The Crying Game (9:25pm) at the Ridge...
The Young One (7:30pm) and "El" (9:20pm) at Pacific
Cinematheque...
8 SUN CiTR PRESENTS UNDER THE VOLCANO FESTIVAL AT CATES PARK
FEATURING AZTLAN NATION, BOB'S YOUR UNCLE. WITHOUT
REZERVATION, CESAR DAVILA & KIN LALAT. CULTURE HYPE CREW,
ZOLTY CRACKER. SPARKMARKER. JEET KEI, TICKLE TRUNK AND
FRACUS... CITR PRESENTS DRIVE LIKE JEHU WITH UNWOUND AT THE
TOWN PUMP... NFA Yaletown Blockbuster with Brand New Unit.
Rotor Cloud, cub and Rancid on Hamilton... movies of the week at
the Railway... Wicked Swimming Dog with Dreaming I Am,
Flngerpalnt, Joyride at the Offramp... The Miracle (7:30pm) and
The Crying Game (9:25pm) at the Ridge... Deathwatch (7:15pm)
and The Judge & the Assassin (9:40pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
9 MON September Child at the Railway... Ethan Frome (7:30pm) and
Howards End (9:25pm) at the Ridge... Deathwatch (7:15pm) and
The Judge & the Assassin (9:40pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
10 TUE Cruel 70s Disco at the Co y odore... Linda Hornbuckle with
the No Delay Band at the Yal... Jelly Roll Blues Band at the
Railway... Phat Groove with DJ Czech at Graceland... Truly with
Crunt at the Offramp... Ethan Frome (7:30pm) and Howards End
(9:25pm) at the Ridge...
11 WED CITR HOT WEDNESDAYS AT THE PIT PUB... Iris Dement at Tom
Lee Music Hall... Joe Louis Walker at the Yale... Fish Tales at the
Railway... Linda Hornbuckle with the No Delay Band at the Yale-
Reggae Night with CiTR's own DJ George Barrett at Graceland...
Leolo (7:30pm) and Calendar (9:35pm) at the Ridge... Post Modern
Sisters: Just Beneath the Skin (Program Two) at Pacific
Cinematheque (7:30pm)...
12 THU Sub-Sonic Thursdays at the Pit Pub with Bob's Your Uncle
and Zolty Cracker... Fish Tales at Notorious Nightclub... Frank Frink
Five at the Railway... Linda Hornbuckle with the No Delay Band at
the Yale... Back to Bassix with T-Bone at Graceland... Gnome at
the Offramp... Leolo (7:30pm) and Calendar (9:35pm) at the Ridge-
Post Modern Sisters: Just Beneath the Skin (Program Two) at
Pacific Cinematheque (7:30pm)...
13 FRI Bum with Zumpano at Station Street Arts Centre... Memphis
Slax, Barney Bentall, West End Girls at the Commodore... Frank
Frink Five at the Railway... Linda Hornbuckle with the No Delay
Band at the Yale... Wild Cherry with DJ Czech at Graceland...
Grotus with Lung, Captain Enema, Tchkung at the Offramp... The
Shunning at Richmond Gateway Theatre... Waiting (7:30pm) and
Strictly Ballroom (9:30pm) at the Ridge... The Milky Way (7:30pm)
and The River and Death (9:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
14 SAT CiTR PRESENTS MICHELLE SHOCKED AT VANCOUVER EAST
CULTURAL CENTRE... Copyright with Art Bergmann at Station Street
Arts Centre... Aerosmith with Megadeth at Pacific Coliseum...
Slowburn at the Railway... Linda Hornbuckle with the No Delay
Band at the Yale... Noah's Arc with CiTR's own DJ Noah at
Graceland... Chemlab with Skrew at the Offramp... The Shunning
at Richmond Gateway Theatre-Waiting (7:30pm) and Strictly
Ballroom (9:30pm) at the Ridge... The Milky Way (7:30pm) and The
River and Death (9:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque... Sorting
through the Seventies exhibition closes at Contemporary Art
Gallery...
15 SUN CiTR PRESENTS MICHELLE SHOCKED AT VANCOUVER EAST
CULTURAL CENTRE... DRI with Strain at the Town Pump... Michelle
Shocked at Vancouver East Cultural Centre... movies of the week
at the Railway... Waiting (7:30pm) and Strictly Ballroom (9:30pm)
at the Ridge... "Round Midnight (9:15pm) and Spoiled Children
(9:40pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
16 MON The Neville Brothers at the Orpheum... Reading Railroad at
the Railway... Sebadoh at the Offramp... The Lover (7pm) and
Indochine (9pm) at the Ridge... 'Round Midnight (9:15pm) and
Spoiled Children (9:40pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
17 TUE CITR PRESENTS SEBADOH WITH ENGINE KID AND SUNNY DAY
REAL ESTATE AT THE TOWN PUMP... Tony Flaime with the Demons at
the Yale... Spin Doctors with Soul Asylum and Screaming Trees at
Coliseum Concert Bowl... Cruel 70s Disco at the Commodore...
Daniel Jahnke at the Railway... Phat Groove with DJ Czech at
Graceland.., The Lover (7pm) and Indochine (9pm) at the Ridge...
18 WED CITR HOT WEDNESDAYS AT THE PIT PUB... Daniel Janhke at the
Railway... Tony Flaime with the Demons at the Yale... Murray
McLauchlan at Vancouver East Cultural Centre... Reggae Night
with CiTR's own DJ George Barrett at Graceland... Ju Dou (7:30pm)
and Raise the Red Lantern (9:30pm) at the Ridge... Le Jour Se Leve
(7:30pm) and Les Bas-Fonds (9:20pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
19 THU Sub-Sonic Thursdays at the Pit Pub with Mystery Machine
and Zen Bungalo... Murray McLauchlan at Vancouver East Cultural
Centre... Tony Flaime with the Demons at the Yale... Rhythm Method
at the Railway... Back to Bassix with T-Bone at Graceland... Ju Dou
(7:30pm) and Raise the Red Lantern (9:30pm) at the Ridge... Clips
from Adult Films (7:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
20 FRI Tony Flaime with the Demons at the Yale... Rick Colboume &
Hard Poetry at the Railway... Murray McLauchlan at Vancouver
East Cultural Centre... Wild Cherry with DJ Czech at Graceland...
Buck Pets with Mind Over Four, Season to Risk, Poison Bone at the
Offramp... Tampopo (7:15pm) and Like Water for Chocolate
(9:25pm) at the Ridge... Wutherlng Heights (7:30pm) and Death In
the Garden (9:15pm) at Pacific Clnematheque...
21 SAT The Smugglers with The Odd Numbers, cub and The Stand GT
at Hastings Community Centre... Tony Flaime with the Demons at
the Yale... G.I.BIues at the Railway... Murray McLauchlan at Vancouver East Cultural Centre... Noah's Arc with CiTR's own DJ Noah
at Graceland... Sister Psychic with Diamond Fist Werny and Peach
at the Offramp... Tampopo (7:15pm) and Like Water for Chocolate
(9:25pm) at the Ridge... Wutherlng Heights (7:30pm) and Death In
the Garden (9:15pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
22 SUN movies of the week at the Railway... Tampopo (7:15pm) and
Like Water for Chocolate (9:25pm) at the Ridge... A Week's Vacation (7:30pm) and Beatrice (9:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
23 MON Carmaig de Forest & his Death Groove Love Party at the
Railway... Wide Sargasso Sea (7:30pm) and Map of the Human
Heart (9:30pm) at the Ridge... A Week's Vacation (7:30pm) and
Beatrice (9:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
24 TUE Russell Jackson with the Jack Band at the Yale... Phish at the
Commodore... Cruel 70s Disco at the Commodore... Carmaig de
Forest & his Death Groove Love Party at the Railway... Phat
Groove with DJ Czech at Graceland... Wide Sargasso Sea (7:30pm)
and Map of the Human Heart (9:30pm) at the Ridge...
25 WED CITR HOT WEDNESDAYS AT THE PIT PUB... Carmaig de Forest
& his Death Groove Love Party at the Railway... Russell Jackson
with the Jack Band at the Yale... Reggae Night with CiTR's own DJ
George Barrett at Graceland... Betty Blue (7:30pm) and IP5: The
Island of the Pachyderms (9:30pm) at the Ridge... Blue Angel
(7:30pm) and The Last Laugh (9:25pm) at Pacific Clnematheque...
26 THU Sub-Sonic Thursdays at the Pit Pub with Copyright and
Coal... Carmaig de Forest & his Death Groove Love Party at the
Railway... Russell Jackson with the Jack Band at the Yale... Back to
Bassix with T-Bone at Graceland... Betty Blue (7:30pm) and IP5: The
Island of the Pachyderms (9:30pm) at the Ridge... The Phantom of
Liberty (7:30pm) and The Criminal Life of Arch, de la Cruz (9:30pm)
at Pacific Cinematheque...
27 FRI Carmaig de Forest & his Death Groove Love Party at the
Railway... Russell Jackson with the Jack Band at the Yale... Wild
Cherry with DJ Czech at Graceland... Sage with Silkworm and
Stymie at the Offramp... The Pickle (7:30pm) and Dave (9:35pm) at
the Ridge... The Phantom of Liberty (7:30pm) and The Criminal Life
of Arch, de la Cruz (9:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
28 SAT cub, Blaise Pascal, Sister Lovers and Thee Goblins at Station
Street Arts Centre... Russell Jackson with the Jack Band at the
Yale... Phil Smith & Primitive Road at the Railway... Noah's Arc with
CiTR's own DJ Noah at Graceland- The Pickle (7:30pm) and Dave
(9:35pm) at the Ridge... Around the World in 24 Hours: Road Movie
Marathon (noon) featuring The Wizard of Oz, Lost In America,
Sullivan's Travels, The Hidden Fortress, Leningrad Cowboys Go
America. Stagecoach, Powwow Highway, Cocktail Molotov.
Thelma and Louise. Backlash, Paris Texas, Detour, Highway 61 at
Pacific Cinematheque...
29 SUN movies of the week at the Railway... The Pickle (7:30pm) and
Dave (9:35pm) at the Ridge... Daddy Nostalgia (7:30pm) and Life
and Nothing But (9:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
30 MON Za Za & the Angels at the Railway... Distant Voices. Still
Lives (7:30pm) and The Long Day Closes (9:15pm) at the Ridge-
Daddy Nostalgia (7:30pm) and Life and Nothing But (9:30pm) at
Pacific Cinematheque...
31 TUE Za Za & the Angels at the Railway... The Original Sinners at
the Yale... Phat Groove with DJ Czech at Graceland... Distant
Voices. Still Lives (7:30pm) and The Long Day Closes (9:15pm) at
the Ridge...
•A.
I"; SPIING
'—r
1
1  y
in
lil
till
i ijj r
m
1 ^ n?¥^a5
MEAT-UP  ^     ^»i^-s
ON THE DIAL
THE JAZZ SHOW 9:00PM 12:0OAM
Vancouver's longest tunning pirns time jazz
program. Hoeted by the ever-suave Gavin
Water. Features at 11.
Aug 2 *t: The Jazz Show with Gavin
Water wiU take a holiday.
Aug 18: Back or the scene with Grant
Green. The great guitarist cooks with an
aH-star rtiythm section. Sonny Clark on
piano, Sam Jones on bass and Art Blakey
on Aums drive Green to some of his best
work. A dassic Blue Note dale from 1962
Aug 23: *Ela in Berlin-... considered
by many to be among Ella F itzgera Ids best
recordings. Ifs a Ive' date done in 1960
with her working band led by pianist Paul
Smith. Al the tunes she sings here are
can get through on the phone! Ida Bean's
on the tip!
THE UNHEARD MUSIC 7:00-9:00PM Meat
the unherd where the unheard and the
hordes of hardly herd are heard, courtesy
)f host and demo director Dale Sawyer.
Iranian music. This show is dedicated to
Iranian music ranging from traditional,
folk, ethnic, mystic, old and contemporary
pop. Music of various parts of Iran ie.
n. Youll kn
SUNDAYS
ARE YOU SERIOUS? MUSIC 8:00AM
12:00PM All of time is measured by its
art Most broadcasting shuns art for incestuous market-music. This show presents the most recent new music from
around the world. Ears open. Hosted by
Paul Steenhuisen and lan Crutchley.
THE ROCKERS SHOW 12:15-3:00PM
Reggae inna all styles and fashion.
George Barret, Mike Cherry and Peter
Williams alternate as hosts.
SOUL CHURCH 3:00.:00 PM Alternating
Sundays with Brent Argo. Vancouver's
only program devoted entirely to Africa n-
Canadan and African- American Gospel
music. Your rotating hosts are Vence
Yeh and Dave Langille (every second
BLACK MUSIC 6:00-8:00PM Everything
Blues, Gospel, Jazz. Soul, R&B, Funk,
Hip Hop, and current Dance Tracks.
Mouldy vinyl to shiny CDs. Your host,
Lachlan Murray.
LULU'S BACK M TOWN 8.-OO-9:0OPM Turin as your hosts VinnieCarpelliandSonny
Prince play some of the honest crooners
on wax. Names like Tony Bennett,
Sammy Davis, Jr., Engelbert
Humper_nckandrr_ny,n_ny more-lots
of great cuts and plenty of polyester.
GEETANJAU 9:0O-10:0OPM Geetanjali is
a one-hour rado show which features a
wide range of music from Inda. This
includes classical music, both Hindustani
and Carnatic, popular music from Indian
movies from the 1930s to the 199.S,
Semi-classical music such as Ghazals
and Bhajans, and also Quawwalis, Folk
Songs, etc. Hosted by J. Dhar, A. Patel
and V. Ranjan.
RADIO FREE AMERICA 10:00PM-
12:00AM Join host Dave Emory and
colleague Nip Tuck for some extraord-
nary political research guaranteed to
make you think twice. Bring your tape
deck and two C-90s. Originally broadcast on KFX (Los Altos, California).
MONDAYS
THEMORNINGSHOW 7:30-8:15AMWake
up with the CiTR Morning Show. All the
news, sports and weather you need to
start your day. Plus what's happening at
UBC each day with UBC Digest, a feature interview and more. Topped off with
theBBC World ServiceNew»at8:00AM,
live from London, England.
BREAKFAST WITH THE BROWNS 8:15-
11:00AM Your favourite brown-slers,
James and Peter, oiler a savoury
blend of the familiar and exotic in an
excitingly luscious blend of aural delights! Tune in and enjoy each weekly
brown plate special.
THE STUPID RADIO SHOW 11:00 AM-
1:00 PM Our noon feature is 'Crucifix in
your eaf. Our levle of professionalism is
above question.
MEKANIKAL OBJEKT NOIZE 1:15-
3:00PM CiTRsontyallrdustrial/hdustnal
/ambient show with dfferent features every
week. With your dj pais June and Ren. Rhys
Fulber hates you alL
SONIC SALAD 3:<XM:00PM Hosted by
Clay Loudermilk.
STRAIGHT OUTTA JALLUNDHAR 4:00-
;t DJs Ji
a and B
immerse you in radoactive Bhungra!
•Chakkh de phutay". Listen to all our
lavorite Punjabi tunes - remixes and origK
attain. You'll know why she is caled the
first lady of song and scat*.
Aug 30: 'The uncrowned king' was
what Art Blakey called trumpeter Kenny
Dorham whose birthday it is today. Kenny
would have been 69... he died in N.Y.C. in
Dec. 1972. Kenny was as much an innovator as Miles Davis and Dizzy GMespie but
never got the acclaim and was relegated to
being a 'musician's musician'. Ton _ht Mr.
Dorham with his working band, proving his
status as a Jazz giant.
SCREAMING INCONSISTENCES: With
Kelowna Vincent & Jennie: What can I
say? JennieMidnight-1:30am. Kebwna's
Case (1:30an>3am).   Mystical, magical
Bou hosts: Bepi
Crespan and Greg. Alternating with Woi
at the Door.
AURAL TENTACLES MIDNITE UNTIL
THE MOON DROPS Fun for the whole
family to enjoyl Weird chunks of news,
odd pieces of tuneage, Pierre and the
2AM WWOD.
WEDNESDAYS
THE YACHT CLUB 11:30AM-1:15PM A
nautical tour of the four comers of the
musical world. Drop anchor. Hosted by
Mart & DJ. Gav.
NOOLEY TUNES 1:15-3:00PM Spinning the
beat and worst of CiTR's playlist, only the
native land. Your hostess Coral plays
your local and national favorites.
REVENGE OF THE NERD* 1:00 3:00PM
Lie is big.
FLEX YOUR HEAD 3:00_:00PM
-—HARD ERIC—-
-—ERIC CORE—-
GET IN THE RING 5:3O-:0OPM Join Mike
and Brian every week to hear them tag
team the issues with guests from all over
the political spectrum.
OUT  FOR   KICKS   6:00-7:30PM   No
THE CiTR DINNER REPORT 5:00-5:30PM
TUESDAYS
MADONNA DEATHWATCH 8:00-11:00AM
Bryce and Scooter get the U.R.G.E.!
HELEN'S HUT 11:0OAM-1:0OPM This month
we're out in the yard - for Helen's Picnic!
Stories.tunes.recipesandacheckedtable-
cloth. Is it a date?
BLOOD ON THE SADDLE 1:15-3:00PM
Country muse to scrape the oowshi off your
U B C Thunderbird boots to. Wih yer host-pote Jeff Gray.
MEET IDA BEAN 6:00-7:00PM Rap, hip
hop,and Super Dope Lyrics- so fry that
you'll do 3-5 justfor getting caught listening
NORMAN_KITCHEN3:00-:00PU Today's
Special: Peanut butter and Bacon sandwiches. With your host, the Reverend
ESOTERIC 5:30-7:00PM Go Ahead. It wont
AND SOMETIMES WHY 7:0O-0:00PM
Megan Mallett and Miko Hoffman play
elevator music the way it should be.
OPEN COUNTRY JOY 12:OO-4:0OAM,1ST
WED. OF EVERY MONTH. Don't let the
?#?%?«? fool you.
TALES FROM THE INFINITE UVMGROOM
12:00-?:00AM, 2ND, 3RD, 4TH WED.
OF EVERY MONTH. Join Chris Pariah as
he guides you through the scapes and
dream images of the Infinite Livingroom,
the only place where the utterly absurd
meets the profoundy i
We donl get paid so you're damn nght we
have fun with it. Hosted by Chris B.
EDSVILLE, POP.6 7:30-9:OOPM Roots of
Rock'n' Rol -1 you donl get into Rock 'n'
Roll Heaven don't blame me! Hosted by
Eddie J.
UVE FROM THUNDERBIRD RADIO HELL
9:00-11:00PM Local muzsakc from 9.
Live banz play tha blues from 10.
RADIO TRAMS UBSTANTIATION
YEA!!11:00PM-1AM alternating Thursdays with Gigablast. Are you a prisoner or
a warden? Oh baby, what a crazy scene,
we're back from the darkest depths of hell
and, as it turns out Sammy Davis Jr. is
the devil andwe'rerealrygoodtapclancers,
and thus weVe been granted a new Hfe,
hey hallelujah! Managafeeliadapalenza!!
FRIDAYS
I BEE NORMAL 10:00-11:00AM Pioneers of
Radio Sound advocating the mentally/
physically chalenged community with con-
SUN
MON
TUE
WED
THU
FRI
SAT
ARE YOU
SERIOUS?
MUSIC
THE  CI
i-mM-Hii-i
_H!M"_t__l
•W.'MU.W
ERVICE
THE
SATURDAY
EDGE
BREAKFAST
WITH THE
BROWNS
MADONNA
DEATH
WATCH
DIGITAL
ALARM
CHRONOMETER
SHOUR/NAVA
VENUS
FLYTRAP
INTERNTL.
DISCO
MUSIC
1 BEE NORM
DON AND
GOURDS
STUPID
RADIO SHOW
HELENS
HUT
CANADIAN
LUNCH
PEAKING
CANUCK
THE YACHT
CLUB
l.l-ftU-LH
EQEE
ROCKERS
SHOW
POWER
CHORD
MEKANIKAL
OBJEKT
NOIZE
BLOOD ON
THE
SADDLE
NOOLEY
TUNES
REVENGE OF
THE NERD
LO-FI
MEGABLAST/
NARDWUAR/
NOIZ SHOW
BRENT
ARGO/
SOUL
CHURCH
SONIC SALAD
MARY
TYLER
MOORE
SHOW
NORMANS
KITCHEN
FLEX YOUR
HEAD
AFRICAN
SHOW
JALLUNDAR
BLACK&TAN
THE
SPORTS
»!■:■:■-
-MUM
BLACK
MUSIC
■ -'a "-1
•JAd, _ ■l.!,l
MEET IDA
BEAN
ESOTERIC
OUT FOR
KICKS
COCKTAILS
WITH DARYL
AND
SUSI
IN
EFFECT
BOXER
SHORT
BOYZ
UNHEARD
MUSIC
TIMES WHY
EDSVILLE,
POP.6
LULUS BACK
IN TOWN
THE REAL
DEAL
HEIMLICH
MANOUVRE
GEETANJALI
THE JAZZ
SHOW
WOLF AT
THE DOOR/
STAMINA
DADDY
THE ENTERTAINMENT
PROGRAM
LIVE FROM
THUNDERBIRD
RADIO HELL
HOME
BASS
ONE STEP
BEYOND/
RADIO FREE
AMERICA
GROOVE
JUMPING
GIGABLAST /
RADIO T.Y.
IN THE GRIP
OF INCOHERENCY
SCREAMING
INCONSISTENCIES
AURAL
TENTACLES
TALES FROM
THE INFINITE
LIVINGROOM
LIMP
SINK
SUMMER OF
HATE
SOMETHING
•ouch*. Sk-ene-the music, Conwaysthe
voioe. The whole is edging the limits.
LO-FI HXWuWPM lofi action with archie.
velvet aid rowena.
NARDWUAR THE HUMAN SERVIETTE
PRESENTS.. 3:3tM.-00PMTheguywho
invented K-Tel was bom in Winnipeg.
THE CiTR DINNER REPORT 5«M_0PM
With The Voice of Reason,' our weekly
look back at the week in the news, tongues
IT. NOT EASY BEING GREEN 5:30 -
6:00PM   Kelowna babbles mostly about
and anything else that may come to rrind
on a Friday afternoon. (Yeah, right Cathi -
Dave)    Guests... usually.
COCKTAILS WITH DARYL AND SUSI 6:00-
9:00PM Underground sound system-style
DJ Noah on the wheels of steel.
Fire Pip* -
*She mashed it harder and harder, but she had
fun, and it was her banana.' Fire Pipe was
brought to you by the number '180' and
the letter 'G\
The Doctor Killdare Show -
My favorite part was when she went to go grab
thebananaandJuiusCeasarcriedZERA!!!
SATURDAYS
THE SATURDAY EDGE 8«lAM-12fl0PM
Now n its 8th year on the ar, The Edge on
Fokfeaturesmusicyouworft hear anywhere
else: new releases in the realmofCelic, Poland Roots; studio guests; British comedy
sketches; and British soccer resuls at 1130
AM. 8-9 AM: AfricarVWorti roots. 9-12 noon:
Celtic music and feature performances.
POWERCHOflD 12:1S-3:00PM Vaxxxwer.
only true metal show; local demo tapes,
and Metal Ron do the dan^e.
THE AFRICAN SHOW 3»«:00PM Ifs a
music thing from al 'Africa.' Ifs an awareness thing of sel and others. Ifs an African
house party. Stories, music, dance fun. Welcome! Your hosts: Umerah and Maweie.
THE SATURDAY MAGAZNE 5OO6:30PM
UBC. weekend news. Al the latest news,
INEFFECT6.«W:00PMTwohouisolfatfuckirr
beats to smoke fat fuckin' Blunts to wth the
funkmanPDS.
THE HEIMLICH MANOUVRE 8O0-10O0PM
Soph_tic_edradiofcr the after rJtYier crowd.
GROOVE JUMPNG 10:00PM-1:00AM Terry
and John? Justin and Torrf? Choose your
hunksf
SOMETHNG 1:004:00AM A cute little blurb
with a sutveisive undertone and a sight
joke that you donl
THUR§ .PM AUfl. 5
FRI 6PM AUG. 6
WHOM   &   HOW
ARTS JOHN SEMINOFF
BOARD CHAIR HARRY HERTSCHEG
CURRENTAFFAIRS ANGUSWILSON
DEMOS/CASSETTES DALE SAWYER
ENGINEER RICHARD ANDERSON
ENTERTAINMENT CHRIS  CHEN
UBRARIAN ^^^^^^^^
MOBILE SOUND
MUSIC
PRESIDENT
PRODUCTION
PROGRAMMING
PROMOTIONS
SPORTS
.INCE    YEH
DRU PAVLOV
JUSTIN LEIGH
DRU PAVLOV
HELEN G.
ADAM SLOAN
A.O. CHAPMAN
BRIAN WEISER
STATION MANAGER LINDA SCHOLTEN
VICE PRESIDENT JEREMY PRICE
VOLUNTEER COORDINATOR     JOHN RUSKIN
BUSINESS LINE 604/822-3017
DJ UNE 60*822-2487 (UBC-CiTR)
NEWS UNE    604/822-5334 (822-JEDI)
FAX UNE 604*22-9364
ENVOY ID CITR.FM
34 ntP^°un^i\ ! 1	
Warner Bros, recording artist
ris
eMent
"I can count on three fingers the number of people
who impressed me as much the first time I saw
them bve..." - John Prine, Rolling Stone
"Sung in a sweet, gospel-tinged voice, she binds
the melodic strains of folk, country and particularly white southern gospel music to gentle and wise
lyrics." - Boston Globe
WEDNESDAY AUGUST 11
TOM LEE MUSIC HALL
929 GRANVILLE
DOORS 7:15pm « SHOW 8:00 pm
POLYGRAM RECORDING ARTIST
MMkSk
with guests
SATURDAY AUG. 14
and
SUNDAY AUG. 15
VANCOUVER EAST
CULTURAL CENTRE
doors 7:15pm • show 8:00 pm L *, - *v *
FPOM CALIFORNIA
Hil
WITH GUESTS
SUNDAY AUG. I5TH
TOWN PUMP
£^ and CJSF presenl
Epic recording artists
from Washington DC
with special guests Touch and Go
recording artsits from Chicago
W    didjits
jt)^/nS TRIGGERHAPPYond
#v-^ * cuahcc AcrniTiinc
SUNDAY AUGUST 1
TOWN PUMP
CiTR and CJSF present from San Diego Cargo/Headhanter recording artists
with special guests
UNWOUND
SUNDAY AUGUST 8
TOWN PUMP
citr presents sub pop recording artists
P M
e o
with guests ENGINE KID and SUNNY DAY REAL ESTATE
tuesday august 17 • TOWN PUMP
doors 8:00 pm
Tickets Available At: Zulu, Black Swan, Track, Highlife, Scratch, Ticketmaster outlets or charge by phone 280-4444.
Tickets for X, DRIVE LIKE JEHU and SEBADOH available only at record stores and the Town Pump. 1869 W 4th Ave..
Vancouver. BC
V6J1M4
CANADA
tel 604.738 3232
STORE HOURS
Mon to Wed 10:30-7:00
Thurs and Fri 10:30-9:00
Sat 9:30-6:30
Sun 12:00-6:00
ZULU RECORDING ARTISTS PERFORMING
Tour
Uncle
COAL
Aug 5 Commodore Ballroom
(w/They Might Be Giants)
Aug 8 Under The Volcano Festival
Aug 24 PNE w/Kashtin
Aug 28 Town Pump
Sep 3 Bumbershoot (in Seattle)
Aug 13 Off Ramp (Seattle) w/Grotus
Aug 14 Hungry Eye
Aug 21 Lunatic Fringe
Aug 12 Harpo's (Victoria) w/©
Aug 27 Pop (featuring art by Nicole)
LWE:
mmm    m^      mm     warn
STORE
ZULU
Friday July 30 • 2:30pm
Thrill
Squad
Formerly Go Four 3. they're back from doing time in Toronto to check in with their
hometown before heading off to recording sessions in England for an upcoming
release. Take a late lunch break and sneak down to Zulu for their performance.
Show Business Giants
®   Maybe Its Just Me...
Victoria's Show Business Giants ;
knucklehead Tom Holliston with a little help from his friends
(including John Wright from Nomeansno). With songs like
"(I've Got the) Soul of a Woman (Inside Me)". "My Slacks", and
"I'm a Square", you know you're dealing with something a
little odd... but we mean that in the good sense.
SALE 14.98cd/9.98cass
Huevos Rancheros
®   Endsville
If you think that Shadowy Men are Canada's only cool
instrumental group then you've got egg on your face, buddy.
Calgary's Huevos Rancheros follow-up some way-rockin'
singles with their excellent C/Z Records debut full-length
release. Endsville.
SALE U.98c_/9.98cass
Palace Brothers
®  There is No-one What
Will Take Care of You
Mournful music from some farmland hicks who used to play
with Slint and the Breeders. They ditched the distortion for
banjos and moonshine, creating slow introspective country
with a slick bent
Smashing Pumpkins
® Siamese Dream
Beyond and beneath Billy Corgans solemn and ceremonious
songwriting lies the emotional cleansing of the Smashing
Pumpkins' long-awaited follow-up to Gish. Although the
Smashing Pumpkins take on 70's-influenced prog rock is
nothing more than a blurring of the traditional cliches.
Siamese Dream cradles gorgeous guitar and aggro-
ambience in all of its vicious beauty and grace.
SALE 14.98cd/9-98cass
Smog
®  Julius Caesar
More  melancholy  songs,  moodily  performed  by the
perpetually introverted Bill Callahan. Although displaying a
more musical quality than past recordings. Julius Caesar still
offer the introspective lyrical and musical wanderings that
charmed his earlier records — check it out
SALE 14.98cd
IMPORT
Julep
® Yo Yo Compilation (various)
Following up on the "Throw" compilation. Pat Malay's Yo Yo
Records continues to support independent music with
another collection of fine bands including local acts Cub and
Kreviss. So display your dedication to indie rock and give the
Julep comp a spin.
SALE 14.98cd/9.98cass
IMPORT
Swirlies
®   Broke Dick Car
This latest ep by that Massachusetts-based band. The
Swirlies. offers a fine sample of new material as well as a
danceable remake of the song "Pancake". If you liked them
live, you'll also like this.
SALE 11.98cd
IMPORT
SALE 14.98c-
IMPORT
The Silver Jews
®  The Arizona Record ep
Fuzzy, quirky, incredibly catchy, low-fi rock that owes a
whole lot to Pavement Actually, ft sure sounds a lot like
Pavement And isn't that a couple of the Pavement guys on
the back cover? rlmmm...
SALE 9.98cd
IMPORT
The Fine Print...
Sale prices are in effect until August 31.1993. Magazines? Box sets? Tshirts? Odds and sods? We gots lots!