  MORE NOISE PLEASE
S. JESSE BERNSTEIN
'Prison' cd/cs
SEAWEED
'Weak'  cd/cs
7
THE MONKEYWRENCH
'Clean As...' cd cs lp
'Bottle Up...'7
AFGHAN WHIGS
'Congregation' cd/cs
DISTRIBUTED EXCLUSIVELY IN CANADA BY Di&COBDER
MAY 1992 • ISSUE #112
"Kurdt, it's Discorder. it's better than the Rocket ...it's punk
rock" — Courtney Love to her
husband as heard by Scooter.
IRREGULARS
NEW YORK STORIES
NORTHERN RAGE
ScooterScorr-"
BAD RELIGION
Just Becau*-" "v
Punk Rock.
REGULARS
COWSHEAD 3 VANCOUVER SPECIAL.....21
-5 FUTURE RAP....
SPINLIST.	
sub I tA 1 12 ON THE DIAL	
HELEN'S KITCHEN 15 UNDER REVIEW...
DIALIN' FORCELEBRITIES_27 REAL LIVE ACTION	
7" 20 MOFO'SPSYCHOTRONIC PIX25
MEKANIKAL0BJECTN0IZL._20 DATEBOOK 3(
STUPID DUMMYHEDS...by Rob Adamson ,
I WON DER...by lan Boothby	
EVERYTHINGS DUCKY...by Blaine Thur
THE BLANK GENERATION...by Gaiy Wild
JUNKFLESH...by Bryce Thing	
COVER
This month's cover is by local artist
Crazyman, who did one hell of a job
representing the Northern Rage piece,
and the effect Discorder may have on
your feeble mind...crazy, man!
OFFICE USE ONLY
HAVE CHILDREN BY SEVERAL
DIFFERENT MATES, OR
DEAD'ALTHOUGH I SUSPECT
THAT THERE ARE SEVERAL
WHO WISH THEY WERE DEAD
AS WELL, BUT THEY SORT OF
FALL INTO THE MARRIED/WISH
BE NAMED. NEVER MIND, OKAY,
HERE'S THE STATE OF THINGS:
MY HIGH SCHOOL REUNION IS
COMING UP IN SEPTEMBER I
WILL INEVITABLY BE FACED
WITH THE UNBAREABLE TASK
OF HAVING TO TRY AND RECOGNISE PEOPLE BY THEIR NAMET-
AGS, MOST OF WHICH WILL
PROBABLY SAY "HI I'M WALLY."
GRACEISTHATEVERYONEWILL
HAVE GAINED AT LEAST THIRTY-FIVE POUNDS OR BECOME A
POSTER CHILD FOR THE KAREN
CIOUS BRENDA," ALTHOUGH
DEEP IN MY HEART I'M HOPING
CLOSED IN IT A CARD THAT I AM
SUPPOSETOMAILBACKINWITH
A BREIF SYNOPSIS OF MY LIFE
OVER THE LAST TEN
YEARS..LIKE I'M WILLING TO
REVEAL THAT TYPE OF DATA.
YES, WELL FOR SEVERAL
YEARS I EXPERIMENTED WITH
PRACTICALLY EVERY KNOWN
DRUG BEFORE MOVING ON TO
AND HAVING SEX WITH ANYONE
WHO WOULD GET NAKED WITHIN TEN FEET OF ME, AND WELL,
NOW I'M STRICTLY INTO WEARING WOMENS UNDERGARMENTS WHILE HANGING OUT AT
VIDEO ARCADES NEAR THE
COIN EXCHANGE. OH HOW I
WISH IT WAS TRUE. I DIDN'T
BOTHER TO BUY A YEARBOOK,
FRANKLY I COULDN'T HAVE
CARED LESS AND NOW I'VE
SHOULD ALL JUST GO THERE
AND LIE LIKE BANDITS. GOOD
PLAN.I'VEDECIDEDTO TELL ALL
WHO ASK THAT I'VE BEEN IN
JAIL FOR THE LAST FIVE YEARS
FOR SELLING SNUFF FILMS,
HAVE SEVERAL CHILDREN BY
1977'!98;rip
IT'S ONLY A LOONIE TO GET IN...
...WHAT MORE DO YOU WANT?
^IWiUGHT 20N£
Take     A    Taxi     And    Get    In     _F r e e i
7 ALEXANDER ST. GASTOWN • 682-8550
mayQ ^EEgUjTLER
FULL-LENGTH COMPACT DISC INDEPENDENTLY RELEASED ON TEMPLE NORTH RECORDS
RECORDED AND MIXED BY KEN "HIWATT" MARSHALL AT MUSHROOM STUDIOS
PRODUCED BY HIWATT AND FACEPULLER
MASTERED BY BRIAN "BIG BASS" GARDNER AT BERNIE GRUNDMAN MASTERING, LOS ANGELES
AVAILABLE AT YOUR FAVOURITE DOWNTOWN RECORD STORE <Yo 6138 SUB Blvd.
Vancouver, B.C.
V6T 2A5
'-'■■=r-^»
Salutations all of you Discorder
readers. Just to keep you on your
toes—and to show our undying
affection foryour continued loyalty—this month, we've included a
slightly tricky local band crossword puzzle on page 20; 7" column. Now because Grant Lawrence pul so much darn lime into
compiling the thing, the least we
can do is offer up some hearty
audio prizes in appreciation to
him and you for taking the time to
figure il out. Whether you read
Discorder on the local, national,
stateside, or international level
there should be more than enough
information from past issues to
assist you in solving the puzzle.
So, dig through that recycling bin,
unwrap lhat fish, and clean oul
lhat birdcage because everybody
is going lo gel an equal chance.
Submit your completely
solved (or close to it) crossword
puzzle, and preference of CD or
cassette format, to:
Mine's Fucking Right
c/o Discorder
#233-6138 SUB Blvd.
Vancouver, BC
V6T-1Z1
All correct entries received
by May 25 (for heaven's sake don't
forget your return address) will
then be eligible for the draw ofl of
3 grandprizes! [*Note: There will
also be a prize for the worst entry
picked by our own Mofo.'] Enter
now; enter often; all entries must
be seperalely postmarked.
Contest open to all Discorder readers except direct employees thereof.
Oh yeah, I guess you'll want
to know what'sup for grabs: music
, music, music and a subscription
card lo Thrasher magazine. Good
While I've got your attention I may as well inform you
aboul a couple of changes happening here al Discorder. First,
it happens thai our hard-working Co-Editor, Sara Faulkner, is
leaving us for the smog-riddled
twilight of Toronto. Seems she's
got a good paying job scraping
the gum off of the standup roller-
coaster at Canada's equivalent
to Disneyland. I'm just glad we
played such an intricate role in
her itinerary of success..."We
knew her when...."
©STKflD DUrWtkD'S®
WjT-4 A DEEP EKEA7H AfiO AfoUtiOl^Q;
H€A£t  dK. Ge>L£HAN FACES ot\£ oF
Trfe. MOST CRUCJAU  CMYS OP AhS
CA&BZ   AfJOtfiS/Jf-rE..
Lastly, I'm proud, as I hope
all of our readers our, of the fact
that Discorder has never (seriously) taken on the nonsensical
task of trying to define the term
alternative. Frankly, everytime I
read some tripe by the newest
hack on the scene who believes
he holds the definition, and the
formula to Nirvana's success, my
gag reflex starts to act up. One
read in particular pops into my
head by Ian Chiclo, Editor of
Calgary's Vox. Well, of course,
he held no bold ideas on the subject but managed to spew forth a
good half page of rhetoric and
exhausted notions—smells like
Lee Hill-dom to me. But that's
only the half of it, since he managed to use Nirvana's name no
less lhan 7 limes in the firsl 2
paragraphs (byline was also devoted to the Fab 3).
Hey, I'll be the first to admit
that I like the band loo, but why
can't we let a sleeping dog lie?
Carl Sagan and the Jeopardy research leam are on this planet for
a reason and that's lo dwell upon
the unanswerable. Here is a tougher one for you, Ian. Whal is funk
and how does it apply to today's
"new school" of rap and roll? Explain without reference lo P-Funk
or the Red Hoi Chili Peppers.
Do I sound crass enough
yet? Anyways, my point is lhal
Discorder and its readers are
damn tired of reading that bands
name and the word grunge as
well. So, from this sentence forth
(or for a couple of issues al least)
youwill notfindlhe overly abused
words "Nirvana" or "grunge"
in this paper again. The pronoun
of which I speak will be deleted
in its entirely from alt text while
the latter noun will be replaced
by the word "cheetah." Weguar-
antee it, or your pizza is free.
In closing, tune in next
month for lots of laughs 'cuz rumour has it that Scooter has an
interview with Courtney Love;
wife ofthe cheetah king himself.
Also in the works are some astounding pieces on: Jim Rose,
The Monkeywrench, Teenage
Fanclub, Hammerbox, and lois
more. And don'l forget aboul our
ALL LOCAL issue coming oul
in July, which will include the
Local Music Directory (refer to
page 6).
adieu, ™ Ed.
Dear Airhead,
Once again I am sittin' and
flippin' ihrough your lovely publication, eating pickled eggs and
cloves of garlic (so I smell better
lhan G.G.Allin in a sleam bath,
naked, if you can imagine) and my
life is near perfect bul wait ....
Those pictures of Henry Rollins
trouble me! Is Mr. Rollins' neck
really big or is his head jusl small?
Suddenly my punk rock idol seems
strangely mortal, maybe he isn't
myidollWhatifthcVasectamoids
were my favorite band? If there
were no more thirteen year olds
being punk, would there be any
more Sex Pistols records? Do the
Cro-Mags eat fish wilh red or while
wine? Whal if 1 had a gallon of
Jesus Bonehcad's (Dayglo Abortions) body fluids to call my own?!!
You know it's questions like
these that Leonard Nimoy's "In
Search Of programs should have
investigated. I hope you can help
me, I'm greatly perplexed.
Thanks
Excubus Manslaughter
P.S. Thank-you for answering my
Elvis/Glen Danzig question. So if
Elvis is fake and Glen Danzig is
buried al Graceland then the guy
singing for Danzig is jusl some
meaty big guy wilh a bad lid and
ugly sideburns.
Strangely enough, Mr. Rollins and I,
"Airhead," suffer from opposite diseases: 1 suffer from a rare disease
called gigantism white Hank is just
plain old puny. I wouldn't want lo be
the one lo tell him though. And whal is
with you and this Malcolm McLaren
obsession' 'The Sex Pistols never existed. I bet you thought the Monks
were British loo? WRONG! 4 guys
fromlhe Americanmid-weslwho sang
wilhac.cents cuz they thought il would
sellmorerecoras....Don'tlellmeyou're
one ofthe ignorant masses buying up
Body Count records as well?
Actually, ifyou have a gallon of
Jesus Bonehead's body fluids 1 hear it
serves up nice wilh a MacPoulet and
Jojos.
Dear Airhead,
I'm writting from Greece. I
would like very much to send mc
some'issucsofDwcor^r. I'm sure
that Discorder will broaden owr
informations about the rock music scene of the world, here in
Greece.
Also, would you like informations about the Greek rock
scene? We have some very "cool"
rock groups here like The Last
Drive, Deus Ex Macina.ctc. I think
thai your readers will "say yes" in
this proposal. Or cassettes' trade
about the Greek rock music and
Canadian and American music?
I'm looking forward to your
John Skiadas
Holargos, Greece
Dear Airhead,
I am interested in subscribing
to your magazine. I've read a good
review aboul "Discorder", bul before subscribing I was wondering if
you could send mc a complimentary magazine. Thai would be great.
Thanks,
Tophcr Farrell
Jupiter, FL, USA
Dear Airhead,
I'm still reading Discorder. lt
seems very small and faraway now,
hke reading old copies of Snot Rag.
Ian Boothby is really funny
bul... who is this asshole Scooter?
Traci Lords is a "slut", Courtney
a "hole in bolh senses of. the
word," and the post-interview
gossip fest centres an who fucked
which female musician.
Nice to know D-mag and
the mighty R arc slill on guard
against sexist altitudes.
Paul Funk
Mr. Funk., why does lhat name
ring a bell? Maybe il's because
your reputation of being anything but a feminist was paramount around Discorder/Cf/"/?.
Kind of like the pot calling the
kettle black isn't il?
Here is al illle background
information you might need lo
read the article of mention: Leaving Trains are a very.sexist band;
Courtney Love and Hole admittedly project a bruised andslutty
image. Now if you were lo read
Scooter's piece lo accomodate
this new found knowledge you
might nol have taken so much,
supposed, offense lo it. Your point
is taken and,in retrospect, Scooter's remarks were very derogatory so in no way am I trying to
justify his remarks. Bul I'll have
you know lhat Courtney actually
phoned Scooter regarding this
offended. Hey, the guy feels bad
enough, and so do we, so why
don'l we all jusl lake this a.s a
learning experience
MAY© the cruel
elephant
the only alternative nightclub
...fri. may 1 COAST 1040 and MUSIC WEST presents HITTING BIRTH with ITCH and MAN and also
FACEPULLER sat. may 2 COAST 1040 and MUSIC
WEST presents THE IMAGINEERS with THE SHOW
BUSINESS GIANTS, CANE TOADS, and WHINING,
DINING, AND DRILLING sun. may 3 S.N.F.U. with
SLOANEfrom Winnipeg tues. may570S DISCO-
NO COVER-CHEAP! wed. may 6 GREEN DAY
with GHETTO SCHIEST and ALIEN AND THE
PSYCHO thurs. may 7 INDECISIVES 7" RELEASE
PARTY with SONS AND LOVERS, SCOTT B. SYMPATHY, and NO EVIL HAIR fri. may 8 P.D.'s HOT
SHOP presents "skatanism" with c/z recording
artists COFFIN BREAK with LOOT BAG and AGING YOUTH GANG (featuring ex-members of
the spores and curious george) sat. may 9 LITTLE
JOE with DEAD BEAT BACKBONE and SEX WITH
NIXON sun. may 10 special Sunday service
(doors @ 8 pm) with Matador recording artists
UNSANE, also from new york rough trade recording artists KING CARCASS tues. may 12 70s
DISCO DISCO DISCO wed. may 13 CRAWL AND
TRUST US with ZOLTY CRACKER and SIX-INCH
MARIA thurs. may 14 JACK FEELS FINE, TRUK, and
THE MANY fri. may 15 from portland SWEATY
NIPPLES and also from portland it's BAM BAM
sat. may 16 from nyc COP SHOOT COP with
victorias DRONE tues. may 19 70s DISCO-
AGAIN! NO COVER wed. may 20 featuring ex-
members of sonic youth and pussy galore: BEWITCHED with sub pop recording stars KREVISS
and sub pop/K artists MECCA NORMAL thurs.
may 21 formerly of the legenday CHROME, the
guitar god himself: HELIOS CREED abd from
Waterloo Ontario NOISE FLOOR fri. may 22
RUMBLE FISH, DOSE PUMP, and JUICE MONKEYS
fri. may 23 TOOL with LETHAL GOSPEL and
MOTHERWELL sun. may 24 THE MUFFS with
CHEATER SLICKS tues. may 26 FUCK THIS RAVE
SHIT, LETS DISCO! wed. may 27 DETONATORS
with D.C. BEGGARS and OLIVER TWISTED thurs.
may 28 SWELL PROD with MEXICAN POWER
AUTHORITY, LAUGHINGSTOCK and MR. WRONG
fri. may 29 it's the incredible fucking TA.O
with THE PASTIES and DANCING ON GLASS sat.
may 30 THE RATTLED ROOSTERS and CRIMSON
SEEDS..and remember!!! all Sunday shows start
at 9pm sharp (just like the old days) and doors
are open at 8; so you'll just have to excuse
yourself from the dinner table a tad early and
head on down to take in all the action...stuff
coming up? who the fuck knows? you'll just
have to keep your eyes and ears open!!!
Open Tues.-Sat., 9pm-2am
23 W. CORDOVA
Info Une - 688-5351
And*
LOCAL
MUSIC
__^gi__e__l2 LOCAL MUSIC DIRECTORY
PLEASE FILL OUT THIS FORM LEGIBLY AND RETURN IT TO US BEFORE JUNE 15
You are a: (check one, please) band/musician promoter record label record distributor live music venue
 manager studio other (please elaborate: )
NAME	
DESCRIPTION (15 words or less)	
CONTACT	
ADDRESS	
PHONE/FAX	
i  OK, so now you mail this to us @ #233-6138 SUB Blvd., Vancouver, B.C., V6T1Z1 or fax It to us at (604) 822-3017...got it? Good! ALL-AGES SHOW  FEATURING
NEMESIS GYPSY
ill'
Refreshments    Available
KING S 1A_r A Y
Doors at 7:30 pm - Tickets $9; available at Ticketmaster
the band that even  sAtAN can't stand
is   back.'
THE
WECIWES
Thriller yourself to their debut RELEASE on
THRILL-O-RAMA RECORDS
"FILL ME UP" EP
And see them at their Record Release Shbang at
the cruel elephant on THURSDAY MAY 7.
NOW AVAILABLE AT SCRATCH, TRACK, and ZULU
OR SEND $4.00 TO: THRILL-O-RAMA RECORDS, 160 31ST ST.,
WEST VANCOUVER, B.C. CANADA V7V 4P2 0hc Ascxuais are coming! The Ascx-
uals are coming! The Asexuals
came! The boys from Montreal were
in Vancouveron oncof iheirmany slops in
Ihcirploytodominalcthccarthandlhadlhc
pleasure of chatting with T.J. Collins, vocalist/guitarist for the band and whal transpired is represented in the following: a
commendation lo ihis band that you should
leam lo know and love, if you haven'l
already.
Ilav
:rtoldar
bcr of the opposite sex a lie, in hopes of
impressing him/her, and thereby winning
Iheir undying love? Case in point: a young
T. J. Collins (alias T.J. Plenty). You sec, he
told a young female lhat he was a "REALLY GR LAT' guitarist and soon after found
himself trying lo leam how to play ihc six-
stringed puzzle. late soon look ils course
and by numerous flukes, T. J. ended up
getting gigs (with friends' bands) in which
he would "hack away al the guilar and try
and look cool," as he puts il. Well, lime
passed, T. J. actually learned how to play
the guitar, and then realized that he was a
better songwriter lhan a musician. It was
then lhal he and his pals, John Kastncr, Paul
Remington and Scan Friesen, began the
Ascxuais, with T.J. swapping the guilar for
'Ihc name itself came irom a serious
lack of female companionship in high
school. T.J. says, "it wasn't that we were
really ugly, wc were just obnoxious guys."
Obnoxious enough lo play live il seems, ami
in 1983 they came oul of iheir parents'
basements and made their debut with iheir
now-classic, self-titled LP. Many live shows
followed and two years later the Ascxuais
had rattled off two full-length efforts: Be
What You Wanl in 1984 and 1985's Contemporary World, bolh of which were instant favorites with punk rock kids across
Canada.
It was soon after Contemporary World
thai John Kaslner left the band to form (who
else but...) the Doughboys. This left the rest
of the band at a crossroads of sorts and,
although rather confused, they continued as
a three piece wilh T. J. on vocals. Afler a few
attempts al reforming inlo a four piece ihey
finally clicked with bassist Blake Cheetah—T.J. switched back to what got him
into this mess in ihe firsl place and was now
a singer/guitarist. (Whew! Arc you following me? Believe me it gets more confusing).
'Ihis change marked the time when the
band made a stylistic shift Irom pure hardcore to a more popped-up, melodic punk
sound. T.J. explains il simply: "Wc were
tired of playing hardcore tunes and didn't
really I ike the slyle of music we were writing
al the time so we decided we'd go for that
kind of sound. And we've been standing by
il ever since." 'Iheir altitudes changed a bit
too, as the lyrics became more personal (in
comparison lo the broader messages on the
two earlier LPs), and the band decided they
wanted to leave the "do-it-yourself indie
nuxle" and reap the benefits of financial
backing and distribution.
They signed with Cargo Records, recorded ihcDish LP, and the relationship has
flourished ever since. Dish was released in
1988, and the songs on the album caught
more lhan a few Asexuals fans offguard.
"Quite a few punk rock kids were down on
us, but it's all turned around. Now, we have
way more fans lhat are Dish lovers, than
hke our old hardcore stuff."
Dish was criticaUy acclaimed, receiving rave reviews in many magazines, including the CMJ, New Music Report, and
Billboard. This new found success took the
band overseas, for their first tour of Europe,
where, as T.J. puts it, "il was great show after
great show, with nice people and beauuful
scenery. Il was oncof the bestcxperiences I've
ever had." Yes, it proves tree: Europeans love
Canadian bands, particularly that early punk
avec pop tendencies sound. Their success
scored them a deal with German label Fire
Engine, which distributes the band's material in Europe.
Depending on how you look at it, not
all went well in Europe. It was at the end of
the lour that bassist Blake Cheetah decided
to leave the band to pursue his true love of
writing. Word has it he's teaching English
and is rather content. Once again the Asexuals needed to find a replacement. Long-
lime pal Dom Pompeo joined, and is currently filling the bassist position.
Their European label enables Exile
fromFloontown (the most recent release,
circa 1991) to be available on bolh sides
of the Atlantic. The album was produced
by another pal, Kevin Komoda (of "Brave
New Waves" fame), who has worked with
the Grapes of Wrath and ihe Pursuit of
Happiness. Exile is a continuation of the
Dish-slylc lunes, but has a heavier feel
capturing the Asexuals great live sound.
"Floonlown is a way of life. It's like
leaving whatever you don't like doing, to
do something you enjoy, and this is basically whal we're doing," T.J. concurs.
Successfully escaping floonlown, the boys
leave behind hardcore, bringing with them
the same old punk integrity and energy
that makes ihem so damn good live. And
good they were al the Cruel Elephant. The
Ascxuais had many a fan at the good old
Nasty Pachyderm (credit lo Rob Wright
for coining lhat phrase) rockin' oul, and
even tossing in "Be What You Want" to
make the punk kids happy. If you enjoyed
Ihe show, and the last LP (Dish), pick up
Exile from Floonlown. Ifyou missed bolh,
or eilher, may as well catch up. 86 your
own little floonlown, and buy the record,
dammit. I wish the Asexuals every success in the world, and, like they say,
"ASEXUALS WORLD DOMINATION
OF THIS PLANET' appears imminent!
by Joelioela Fraser
8 um^z^ig^
by Rory Tait
was the last time you
thought about St. Louis, Mis-
ri? Well, maybe you should
more often, since it is the gateway to ihe
western plains, noltomention the home to
UncleTupcIo: the best power trio lo come
ouloflhemidwest since the I Iuskcrs kicked
ihc bucket in 1987. If Pete Secger and
Woody Guthnc picked up electric guitars
and cranked their amps up to juicy-distortion levels, they would have formed Uncle
Tupelo 40 years ago and Jay Farrar, Jeff
Tweedy and Mike I Ieidom would be work -
mg the factory bell and sucking back beers
on weekends.
Happily, Uncle Tupelo is a band
from the present. Wilh Iwo albums, No
Depression and Still Feel Gone on Rockville records, UncleTupcIo is working the
rigorous louring circuit east of the Mississippi, around the midwest, east coast and
Canada in their 1982 Chevy van. Perhaps
they'll be oul our way soon...until then,
this transcription of my conversation via
telephone with drummer Mike Ilcidom
will have to do for now:
Discorder: So where arc you calling
Mike Heidorn: I dunno...somewhere in
Canada between Dctroitand Toronto. I've
just been silting on the floor of the van
reading, so I don't really know where
I know you're from around St.Louis,
but where exactly are you from?
We're actually from Belleville, Illinois,
which is about 30 minutes due cast of St.
Louis. It's like a suburb.
Is there much of a music scene there?
In St. Louis, yeah...it's constantly growing and changing. 'There's always lots of
people picking up the slack, and there's a lot
of good clubs to play al, but I don't fhink it's
something lhat people know aboul outside of
the area. It's not to the point where people
have been seeking out the "scene" or anything.
Uncle Tupelo is the only band I've heard
from the St. Louis area, so 1 'm wondering:
arc there are a lot of other bands there that
are playing music in a similar vein?
Yeah, there's a handful of guilar-rock bands,
some of whom are making demos and are
playing around the midwest, but there's a lol
of funk and psychedelic stuff loo.
How much docs the area you come from,
the midwest, influence the kinds of things
you wn'te about or your music?
Jeff and Jay usually share the lyric writing, so I can't really offer much insight
there, bul from knowing them for so long
I know that it has a lot todo wilh the music
coming out of us. I know that if wc were
bom and raised in New York, I don't ihink
we'd be picking up acoustic guitars as wc
did when we were little. Wc had those
rolling hills there in Missouri and our
parents, or al least Jay's parents, have
accordians and acoustics hanging aroung
the house, so wc get that kind of country-
blend feel. As far as the lyrical content, I'd
say if we were from New York I don't
think Ihe lyrical content would be much
different, because I think that a lot of the
stuff lhat happens here happens in the biggest
of cities...it's just amatler of whether you want
to open yourcyes and see thai. New York can
be depressing too...I just went there for the
first time about a ycarago; I don't really like it,
it's a pain in my ass.
What was the reason for covering Graham
Parsons' song "Sin City"?
Oh, Graham Parsons is a pretty cool dude
by us. I dunno, wc started playing that a
long lime ago towards the end of our live sets
wilh Jeff and Jay singing it and playing
acoustic guitar. People kept asking for it live
in different cities...I don'l know how they
heard about it, so we decided to record it. I
don't know where we firsl heard il, probably
on a Flying Burrito Brothers album. The first
time I heard them two sing it was in St. Louis
at a small bar and with those Iwo and their
harmonies, it was a real shiver-up-the-spine
moment. Thai was recorded a long lime ago,
I forget when, but when we needed something lo put on the B-side of the "I Got
Drunk" single. "1 Got Drunk" is the first song
we ever wrote and wc had a lol of people who
know our sel kept asking us why it wasn't on
the album, so wc did il as a single.
It seems to mc that a lot ofthe other songs
on No Depression grew out of "I Got
Drunk".
Oh yeah, a lot of those lunes were written in
the span of a couple of months, when we
were trying to fit all the chords and stuff
together. Since "I Got Drunk" was the firsl
song, il was always there, and the other ones
sorta developed from that.
You've got a lot of songs about drinking,
and when you listen to most rock songs
about drinking or drug-taking there's usually a celebration of alcohol or drugs.
However, with your songs it's much more
of a melancholy approach.
We've been asked aboul that a lot over the
past few years, and a lol of people were
wondering if the second album was going to
be about the same kind of things. It probably
is bul it seemed lhal people were assuming
we could drink 15 cases of beer a nighl, and
wc really don'l even drink! At the time we
wrote those songs, I think we were drinking,
but itwas nothing lhat we set out to do. Most
of the songs are definitely not "pro"-drink-
ing songs bul more to do with the aftereffect. If you're sober you can see a lol of
There's also a political bent to the songs as
well, a real Industrial-proletarian viewpoint; they seem written from the perspective of someone who's at the bottom
ofthe economic ladder.
We definitely come from the majority. The
majority in America is made of ordinary
peoplctryingtomakca living; whereas there
is that minority which controls what you're
going to hear. Songs like "Graveyard Shift"
arc pretty much from our own experience or
from people wc know: there used to be a lot
of manufacturing in our area but with so
many corporate buyouts and everything,
there's a lot of businesses closing. It's starting to fall apart.
Uncle Tupelo
P.O. Box 9249
St. Louis, MO
63117 Aaron: And I'd just like to say that I
went to the Spaghetti Factory here
and it was fucking LAME.
John: The Spaghetti Factory in Taco-
is way better than Vancouver's.
/*-*~ j   f> L~        ~X,      ma is way Detier tnan vancouve
V--OrQI   OliOsT      That's not all, everything is way
checked. Il can't die, it's not a living
being. It's like a concept.
Do you know who your fans are?
Doyou have any?
Aaron: They seem to be nice people,
When I met with Seaweed before
their April 8th gig at the Cruel Elephant I had to do so at the back door.
Joe, the bouncer at the Cruel Elephant, wouldn't even let the band
take their coffees or beer outside so
it was impounded or hidden for later
consumption. Only Aaron and John
came along for the interview as, understandably, Aaron said it just gets
a little too chaotic with everyone
involved. With that in mind see
Mindy's gig review for details of
their energetic show. Read.
Introductions
Aaron: 20 and sings.
John: 22, plays bass.
Bob: "senior citizen of the band" <
23, drums.
Wade: 20, plays guitar.
Clint: 19, also plays guitar.
So you're all from Tacoma?
John: Yep, we're all from vt
small parts of Tacoma.
d to be near Slayer in
:e to your new LP's
Aaron: Il is. We're not trying to be
lough guys or anything, we get beat
up too much.
John: We tried the tough guy approach for a while...
Aaron:...but there's guys like Roll-
> out there and it411st doesn't hap-
;t>
In your pr-SMtl#ft^s you are all
big on masturbating, is this true?
John: Big? Well, I'd say we're kinda
small actually. (laughler)Wehaven't
been keeping track on this lour.
Aaron: But we've only been on tour
for 8 hours.
John: Usually we keep track
mulatively.
Aaron: I don't think I'm going lo
keep track this time, I think I'm
going to slow down.
John: We used to have a scoreboard
but it wasn't for any kind of sexual
So you don't havegirlfricnds then'
Aaron: Sometimes, not on tour, bul
we're not lhat type of band. We're
nol lough guys, we don't get babes
John: Our hand is the closes
Who are your favourite Vancouver bands or do you know any?
John: The Smugglers, or are they
from Victoria? I love the Smugglers. Of course I like Nomeansno.
Aaron: I like the Doughboys but I
guess they're from Canada and I
guess I don'l like ihem anymore.
Man, nol enough Vancouver
come down(to the Slates].
Aaron: I like Sparkmarker.
John: Yeah, definitely.
Aar
SE4WEED
in Canada.
On the cover of Weak one of you is
wearing an SNFU shirt, what other shirts do you all wear?
John: I have a Tacoma Pickleball
1:1 have a shirt that says "Duh"
John: I have a shirt that says "I'd
ralher be square dancing."
Aaron: I have about 15 shirts do you
want mc to name all of them? I have
a Velocity Girls shirt, Thrasher...I
have a lot of skate shirts because I
have lots of friends who work at
skate companies.
John: I hate those SubPop shirts lhal
say "Loser" on them, we're going to
make shirts lhal say "Winner" on
them because our fans arc winners.
think of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada?
Aaron: Porno.
John: Border Hassles.
Aaron: Kim Kinakin from Spark-
What are the noticeable differences between Canada and the U.S.?
Aaron: The Slates has good food.
John: American cheese is a lot better
than Canadian cheese.
Aaron: I'd Uke the Dave lo look <
logo called Dupont.
John: Or ACME perhaps. Wc
never even heard of the Daves I
lo kick their ass.
aaron: All I know is lhat the Daves"|Kj
thing is really circular and ours is
oval. I'm not saying that our thing is
original atall, wc pijelly much ripped
il off of Olivelawn and Dupont, bul
I don't think il's like the Daves'. I
think they arc a little sheltered to
think that they were the first persons
to come up with their name in a
^s Do you still play  a lot of all ages
shows considering your ages?
John:Wc always try, if at all possible, lo play all ages shows; it's much
better lhan bars, much less cxclu-
Wher
ingt,
expensive; the beer costs loo much.
Aaron: I like ihe highways up here
better, they're more scenic. That's
aboul all I've got to say.
What if someone came up to yoi
and said that punk rock is dead?
they're not our frienc
they're mongers.
John: They seem to be
well behaved for the
though I think they smok
crack, definitely,
ijuana.
Aaron: Too much drugs as you say
Did you take am music
ming  lessons when
Sometimes
young?
Aaron: I taught swimmi
can cut and
I've only had one job wht
ost part al-
a swimming instructor.
kc too much
John: I look gymnastic
> much mar-
phy, tai kwon do...
is the next time you're go-
be up here and where is the
tour covering?
Aaron: We're on lour for like 3
months: south, midwest and the up-
of Canada.
Calgary,Winnipeg
ake a run for the
e playing Tcslalousa,
Alabama.
Then
baek
e going tc
for a week, go lo Europe
s and then we're going tc
:st of the summer off. So, may
the fall.
lake
What do you think of when you
LUSH
Lush, London's most current musical asset, swung into town recently
on the last week of a six week North
American tour, promoting their album Spooky. I caught Miki (vocals,
guitar) and Phil (bass) backstage al
the Commodore after soundcheck.
You've played Montreal and
Toronto but have you ever been to
Vancouver before?
Miki: No, we did quile a major tour
when wc came with Ride which was
about a year ago. We went through
the Midwest and then straight to
California, so we missed out this top
Lush receives a lot of publicity in
the British Press and also recently
in North America. You were even
ontheDe/i/iKA/i'Wershow. Doyou
by Justin Leigh
enjoy all the press that you get?
Miki: 'Hie Press? I think it has worn
a bil thin. Wc enjoyed it aboul a year
ago. Wc didn't do anything last year
and yet we were in the British press
every day. Il was sort of fun but then
we got a reputation for nol actually
doing anything, just being in the
press, and il backfired on us. So now
we've done our press tarts bit and
we've had enough of it. It's good lo
gel away and not see the NME or the
Melody Maker.
How are you songs written?
Miki: Emma and Idoilindividually,
we haven't managed to do il as a
band so far. Il might change because
Steve Rippon, who used play bass
before Phil, wasn't a bass player at
all. So he wouldn't know where to
start to write a bass line to a melody
lhat already existed. Everything had
only reason lhal we knew the Cocte
to America lo do l.allapalooza.
like Ride for example. 'l"hey can
always been written for him. Il might
au Twins is because prior 10 4AD we
book a sludio for two weeks and
change now, I don'l know.
sent Robin Guthrie a tape and he was
Do you expect the Manchester
they'll come out wilh six songs. We
inlcrcsted, so we met him even be
scene to completely fade away?
can'l do lhal. If wc get two weeks
What has been the worst show so
fore wc were on 4AD.
Miki: Well, il has already. In it's
off, Emma might come up with one
far?
boom period all il meant was that
and a half songs, and I might just
Miki: Raleigh, North Carolina.
What bands do you listen to on the
anyone from Manchester wa.s con
manage lo scratch one together. It
Phil: You couldn't lake drinks into
road?
sidered to be part of this indie dance-
takes a long lime and we don'l wanl
the hall, or smoke, or dance, because
Miki: Black Sabbath.
type scene. It's got lo a point where
the next record to sound jusl like
of the insurance.
Phil: A bil of William Shatner.
they have 10 change whal they do a
Spooky. 'There's going to have to be
Miki: College shows arc basically
Miki: Spiritualized.
lillle bit because that sound has jusl
some sort of change.
jusl for the students. They figure
become synonymous wilh something
that they've gol nothing belter 10 do
Are there any bands that are big
lhat has dated so much.
Do you like touring North Ameri
lhat nighl, so you don't gel a very
that shouldn't be?
ca?
enthusiastic crowd. Whereas when
Miki: I don'l think of it lhat way.
Do you have any material for a
Miki: Yeah, il's greal.
you play a club, people are coming
Ihere are some bands that 1 don't
new album?
specifically to sec you so they make
really like.
Miki: Nol one morsel. Chris (the
Have you seen Wayne's World?
more of an effort to listen lo what
Phil: Bands Uke Ned's Atomic Dust
drummer) has a few Black Crowes
Miki: I've seen il twice.
you're doing.
bin, or Carter USM. But if you are 14
numbers he'd like to bang oul. All I
or 15...
know is lhal ihc second wc have any
You liked it, huh?
Is there a comcraderie amongst
Miki: There are some bands lhal
time off we'll be expected lo wrile
Miki: I think it's brilliant, no, EX
Lush and the other bands on the
irritate me.
some more songs.
CELLENT!
4AD label?
Miki: Nol really. You see ihem, and
we've met the Pixies, but only because we'll go backstage and say hi.
Wc know Tanya Donnelly (ex-
Throwing Muses) because she used
to go out with our manager, but it's
nol like we're all one big gang. The
Phil: The Wondcrsluff.
Miki: I can't work up enough enthusiasm lo hate these bands because as
far as I'm concerned, so what?!!
Where are you off to next.
Miki: Salt Ijke City. And then Europe for seven weeks, and then hack
You won't be able to take any time
oil?
MikLIdon't think we can afford lhat
Do you feel any urgency?
Miki: Nol an urgency. Take a band
Discography *
Scar EP (4AD) 1989
Mad Love EP (4AD) 1989
Gala LP (4AD/Polygram) 1990
Black Spring EP (4AD/Polygram)
1991
Spooky LP (4AD/Polygram) 1992
MAY@ Ifyou can avoid those Nordic "0"s
and sporadic oul-of-context "eh"s
you can successfully avoid a host of
stupid questions from locals aboul
"up there." ActuaUy, it was mildly
flattering afler spending a character
building 24 hours in Study Butte,
'Texas where everyone is blissfully
unaware. Afler six "flamin' hot
dams" or whatever ihc house specialty was called, I volunteered my
identity lo an inquiring local who
replied, "Oh yeh, ain't lhal sum
stoopit tahwn in thuh middul ah
nowhere?" Can I have some steer
Top 5 Most Asked Canada-Related Questions
1. So...what exactly do the French.
want anyway?
2. You guys are plotting against us
3. Do you know about (insert name
of band here) in Canada?
4. How cold was it when you left?
5. Do you get radio/T.V. up there?
A Fun Trick to Play
Show your new American friends a
crisp Canadian 20 dollar bill. Carefully watch ihem gawk.... then, tell
them they can have il for keepers if
they bum a hole through it. Firsl,
make sure il is pressing down flat
.on their skin somewhere.
Some excellent stuff goes
down here. There is a N.Y. version
of the Cruel Elephant in the Beaver
Cleaver suburbs of Hoboken, New
Jersey. A lot of bands play there
within lieu of a couple of days between the Ritz and CBGB's in Manhattan. It's worth the trip to Hoboken for CE. regulars... just to feel
the eerie continuity. If you wish lo
get into the realm that Gest Quest
Co-Op attempts, there's the infamous ABC No Rio. If only GQ had
the option of attaining a permanent
building lhat they didn't have to
pay rent for. It amazes me how an
"illegal" club manages to survive in
the Spanish quarter of the lower
East Side, an area lhat is so congested that people are doing their laundry in the sewers. Yet ABC still
have weekly gigs with up to five
hardcore, cheetah, and comedy
bands playing. (And yes, Jason X
there werealleaslfifteenkids'gasp'
drinking outside.) I guess N.Y. cops
have better things to do.
Cops
You can jaywalk freely here. Heck,
stop and do a little dance on the
hood. You cannot, however, under
any circumstances, be willing to let
yourdog shit. If you're caught walking yourdog without an empty plastic bag in hand, I believe the consequences are similar to passing out
drunk in your car wilh your keys
"somewhere where you can find
I've only been in N.Y.C. for a
couple of weeks and I've already
held crack in my hand... sealed safely in a 1 1/2 sq. inch of clear plastic
casting resin, shaped like a irick
ice-cube mind you...crazy kids.
The best going-ons by farhave
to do with the movement-cum-la-
bel Squat or Rol. The eminent domain scene is surprisingly organized
here allhough the locals don 'l seem
lo think so. There wasnhis monster
fesLival in Brooklyn called "The
October Revolution" put on by
Squat orRot and a similar organization called "Minor Injury." Once
again an all ages event with alcohol
being SOLD this time. ( As well as
soup, hot dogs and Squat or Rot
records.) The premises were a circle of abandoned factories, newly
abandoned I gather since you literally had to scale heaps of debris to
get to the suge. The cops came, the
cops looked around, the cops left. I
was impressed. Twelve bands: two
industrial and the rest were hardcore. Bands of note were Colored
greens (N.Y.C). Music not unlike
locals Lootbag, with a little tou-
que-wearing white guy singing DJ-
Reggae style a mile a minute, better
and faster than Shabba fer sherr.
Manic Depression were
equally excellent. This four piece
band from Buffalo played a 45
minute set, whopping the standard
half-hour the other eleven bands
played (with theexception of Youth
Gone Mad, who sucked incredibly
that night and I think played for
ever). Manic Depression reminded
me of the Evaporators when I
closed my eyes, and of Celebrity
Skin when I opened my eyes and
plugged my ears...I swear.
Soundbit House were fairly
interesting. They banged on sheet
metal and had tape loops (a la Steel
Pole Bathtub) playing in the background. Still, a little too Laibach for
me, the indoor fire that happened
during their sel was a little more
interesting. Heck, I missed an orgy
to go this show and I don't feel like
I missed much of anything. So it
must've been good... or maybe I'm
jusl an uptight fuck and I'd rather
sit through any masturbatory barrage of noise than roll around naked
with a couple of drunk girls from
Back on the D.I.Y. track, a
volunteer run, donation built record
store called Reconstruction records
(216E.6thSt.NYNY10003;212-
505-0965) I proclaim the place to
feel most comfortable in on Manhattan Island. Rare records, cheap
records, Demos, Demos, Demos,
and Fanzines, FANzines, FANZINES. Ifyou do, or are in, something, send it, they'll do something
with it. Which reminds me, Fact-
sheet US still happens once every
two months or so. For demotapes,
comics, and poelry send submissions to Bill Paulauskas Box 10,
Woodhaven NY 11421. For fanzines and subversive pamphlets... I
forget, but I'm sure you can write lo
Bill and ask him. For those of you
who don't know what Factsheet #5
is, it is the most comprehensive
catalogue of mail order shit (ie.
indie music, fanzines, and related
junk) in North America...Nuff said.
Here are some reviews of some
cool and/or just plain memorable
shit lying around the grande pom-
me. (All list prices are American).
Teen Punks in Heat ($4.50)
Shred of Dignity, P.O.Box 170501,
San Francisco, CA 94117. Teen
Punks is a collaborative of various
scenester-types mister and master-
bation stories. Of course they all
have that crazy, cynical punk rawk
edge to them, so don't expect to
actually gel wel. This zine comes
with a Screeching Weasel 7", "Per-
vo Dcvo," which has a remake of
Weasel Classic, "I Wanna Be A
Homosexual." Probably thee best
calchy punk song I've ever heard.
There's also a "write in" section. If
you want to have something published in the next T.P.I.H. fill out a
card like so:
SEX: Female
FAVOURITE POSITION: Mutual
Missionary Masturbation
SEXUAL FANTASY: To be eaten
out by a white guy with dreadlocks
on the pelts of many endangered
animals in front of my mother.
lishyourfantasy (he appreciates pho-
Grumble Butt (SASE) Fuck Bunni
Press 2622 Princeton Rd., Cleveland Heights, Ohio 44118- this guy
is unbelievably full of shit, but his
binder sized zini
i is free with post-
age and a very good read. This one
comes down on
straightedge and
shows the masse
s lhat even a geek
from Cleveland i
:an write like Bur-
roughs.
Of c
but you get the idea, and you can be
assured that Ben Weasel will pub-
Rantex(Sl+ SASE) 9502 165th St.,
Miami, Fl 33157: More unique wit
from fanzine ranter extraordinaire,
Paul Wienman (79 Cottage Ave Albany NY 12203). Bile-rising newspaper clippings, esotericcomics, and
voodoo/cop heavy layout graphics.
Dearjesus($3 plus postage) Vermiform P.O. Box 1145, Cooper sin
NYC 10276: MRR columnist, Bom
Against Lead, and Vermiform record
label collaborator, Sam McPheeters,
knock the com oul of shit on a variety of topics from the reunification
of Germany to the Nation of Ulysses' Historical timeline. Opinions
even you average Discorder reader
would balk at talking back to. Perhaps that has something to do with
the letters section being titled "Dumbo Hut" as opposed to our flattering
"Airhead." Recommended by none
olher than Matador Jersey City Slag -
King, Gerard Cosloy.
MurderCan BeFun(\ .50 + SASE)
Johnny Man, Box 640111 San Francisco, CA 94109: I swear this guy
spends all his lime going to used
bookstores and reading pamphlets
people give him. The research makes
for still more cynical wit and a variety of meaty topics to be gloriously
disenchanted with. Pop research. My
two favourites were "(Ami) Sex Tips
for Teens," where Marr reviews early 'personal message' books from
the 40s, 50s and 60s, and "Death at
Dizneyland," with photographs and
a well written history of the ride
mishaps and fatalities.
Hot Poop ($2.50) 224 Whispering
Hills Rd. SouthPlainfield, NJ07080:
Very HOT swimsuil issue. Fairly
upbeat interviews of NY Shitcore
bands...I dunno, the dullards' Dear
Jesus if you will.
Retrievallnc. (S2.50) P.O.Box 361,
Ocean City, NJ 08226: A subverts
must! Brainchild of'Seymour Butz',
a detailed how-to glossary of profitable and necessary crimes from shoplifting to mailfraud.
Plumbers Butt ($3.00) Gameau Hall
Rm 327, Kalamazoo, Mi 49008-
1034: Hygiene lips from a schizophrenic, lots of high comedy in the
BOMP! tradition. I loved il sooooo
much! I wanna see it TWO more
Slug and Lettuce (SASE) P.O. Box
2067, Peter Stuy STN NY, NY,
10009: Classifieds for free (if they're
short and to the point); comprehensive NY guide to fanzines, band news
and wanted members, personals, penpals, and demo reviews. D.I.Y. periodical that should be looked inlo for/
by anyone interested in selling up
here for whatever reason.
10__t^^°__-X_3^ MAY^ SECRETS   ENTRUSTED
TO A FEW
S
U
B
T
E
X
T
BY JUDITH BEEMAN
Ladies and Gentlemen, I cannot go
anothermonth without mentioning a
personal fave of "Subtext" and neglected Canadian author: Crad
Kilodney. The name doesn't ring a
bell? Read on...
Crad has lived in Ontario since
the early 70's. Last year he self-
published his 30th book Putrid Scum
(based on his diaries, 79-81). Since
1978 his sole income has come from
selling his words on the streets of
Toronto. Usually his imprint books
cost around 4 dollars (signed, of
course). Not a bad investment: Crad
notes that a T.O. bookseller had
priced his first release, World Under
Anaesthesia (79) at a whopping
$160. It's just finding a buyer that's
the problem...
Aside from the two diaries (the
first was simply titled Excrement)
Crad specializes in the short story.
Wonderfully written, easy to read—
but not simple—his tales focus on
observations (real and imagined) of
his owtflife and those around him.
Imagine a more sexually-frustrated
Harvey Pekar if you will.
Crad has 12 sandwich-board-
,ype signs he wears around his neck
topromotehis books, including: Rol-
len Canadian Literature, Easy books
forimbeciles, Books foreffite snobs,
Books for swine, Abnormal bedtime stories, Literature for mindless
blobs, Dull stories foraverage Canadian twits and Nice books for Zom-
Crad's phone number was included in his "/ Ale Mrs. Ewing's
Raw Guts and Other Stories" book
which, alas, like many of his titles, is
out of print. Last Fall, shortly after I
found the book in a second hand
shop (score!) I got up the nerve to
call Crad and he was really nice!
Gracious and pleased to hear from a
fan. When we spoke he had sold only
4 books after standing on the street
all day. He made $24 for his time (3
@ 4$, 1 @ 12$). I told Crad I was
doing ihis writeup and he encouraged me to print his # (and remember the telephone is nol a toy) 416-
924-5670"crank calls, romantic proposals and big business deals are
welcome". Or write directly through
his press: Charnel House 1712 Avenue Road, PO Box 54541, North
York, Ontario M5M 4N5 (f'crissakes
tell him I sent ya).
Two of his books: Girl on Ihe
Subway, and Malignant Humours
(which boasts a snazzy pic of Crad
on the cover) were published by
Black Moss Press and can be special
ordered so ask the bookstore of your
choice to stock them.
The stories: Humour prevails
although it's as dry as can be. At
times the words are bitter and petulant. At times ihey border on the
misanthropic. At times the writing
is so touching it's made me cry. So
brutally honestly humane...and nasty-
From "Waiting for Halley's Comet":
A teenage dropout is waiting to hear
from Johnny Cash. He sent Johnny
his 'new hit song,' Yunga Bunga
Doo Doo Boy
A housewife is wailing for her husband to leave the house.
Beverly is waiting for Ted in the
Holiday Inn.
Two men in a black Mustang are
waiting for a security guard lo go for
Twenty-threejuniorexecutives within a 100-yard radius are waiting for
authorization.
An unemployed axe-grinder is waiting for gas to hit a dollar a gallon so
he can fill up his van, crash through
the front door of an oil company, and
cause a big fire.
From the tale of "Henry," a lonely
old man who sells tracts on the street:
Despite his medication, Henry does
not fall asleep until very late at nighl.
And every Tuesday and Friday mom -
ing around 7:30, when ihe garbage
men come by, he hears them in his
sleep and he dreams lhat they are the
angels come to pick him up.
A complete list of Crad Kilodney
books:
Mental Cases (78)
World Under Anaesthesia (79)
Lightning Struck My Dick (80)
Gainfully Employed in Limbo (80)
Human Secrets—Book one (81)
Human Secrets—Book two (82)
Sex Sla ves ofthe Astro-Mutants (82)
Terminal Ward (82)
Bang Heads Here, Suffering Bastards (84)
Pork College (84)
The Orange Book (84)
The Blue Book (85)
The Green Book (85)
The Scarlet Book (85)
The Yellow Book (85)
Cathy (85)
Foul Pus From Dead Dogs (86)
Incurable Trucks & Speeding Diseases (86)
Simple Stories For Idiots (86)
Nice Stories For Canadians (88)
Malignant Humors (88)
/ Chewed Mrs. Ewing's Raw Guts
(88)
Excrement (88)
Blood-Sucking Monkeys FromNorth
Tonawanda (89)
Girl on the Subway (90)
Junior Brain Tumors in Action (90)
Putrid Scum (91)
(edited by CK.)
Worst Canadian Slories(Vo\. 1) (87)
Worst CanadianStoriesCVol 2) (87)
The First Charnel House Anthology
of Bad Poelry (89)
Look.../tee is the besl comic in
the whole wide world (even if Peter
Bagge—the author—sez that title belongs to Eightball). It's the ongoing
saga of Buddy Bradley and his somewhat-surly, angst-filled pals who live
in Seattle. That's it. Issue 8 is out
now. Aside from hilarious and poignant stories Hale has contests galore (tres cool ones) and an oft-celebrity-filled letters section. Hate Rules!
Who's Who in Hate:
Buddy, 20ish, works at a second hand bookshop. He's got great
hair and bad posture; an anli-hero if
there ever was one. Buddy's best
friend Stinky is also known as "Leonard the Love God". He's a cad.
There's Val,
Buddy's
girlfriend
Malignant Humors
who
quit
the
Lisa. Aside
from Stinky,
Phil     an
Buddy'
Crad Kilodney
Big give-a-way time! Write
"Subtext" and I'll draw a winning
name for a copy of Crad's Bad Poetry anthology. I gotta warn you, it's
pretty awful stuff! Write me, day or
night @: PO box 4636, MPO, Vancouver, BC, V6B 4A1
I LIKE HATE...AM) I HATE EVERYTHING ELSE! (tee-hee)
sister Babs
who   have
only     appeared briefly.
Another gotta-get comic from
Fan tagraphicsis/f ea/Gir/ published
twice a year. Issue #3 has a trade-
marked (!) blurb on the cover: The
Sex Comik for all genders and
orientations...by cartoonists who are
good in bed! The biggest "name"
here is Alison Bcchdel (whose wonderful "Dykes to Watch Out For" can
be seen for free each month in An-
gles... or for that matter purchased in
book form). Other highlights include
Tom Tomorrow's lesson on putting on a condom; an essay on the
Psychobabology of Women's Humour and—leading the dam thing
off no less—Colin Upton's true story of going to Tom's Slag, said friend
a gay man who tied the knot with
(gasp) a woman. Colin's own comic
Big Thing (#4) will be out soon so
watch for it. Real Girl is swell! Nice
artwork (except for the cover which
is, uh, brightly colored), cool stories,
good messages and all lhal stuff. I
got mine in town but feel free to
write Real Girl, PO Box 460656,
San Francisco, CA 94146 care of
Angela, Editrix.
Perhaps you've seen the Canadian produced True North 2 comic a
72 page anthology the Comic Legends Legal Defense Fund (5334
Yonge St, #120, Willowdale, Ont.
M2N 6M2) produced to combat cen -
sorship and intimidation for people
in the industry. Stories by Todd Mc-
Farlane, Gilbert Hernandez and Sylvie Rancourt to name a few. Write
the CLLDF for more info and the
catalogue of cool gifts yourdonation
will getcha.
Yow! It'sbeen 50issues (and 8
yea rs) for Firehouse Magazine thee
KISS Fanzine published locally.
Ronn Roxburgh has produced the
zine bi-monthly since he wasl 6. Sam -
pie issues and subscriptions (3/15yr)
through Ronn @ #66 -7158 138
Street, Surrey, BC V3W 7 V7. Ronn' s
helping organize a record release
party for the latest Kiss record at the
Rock Cellar on May 14th. You heard
it here first...Zing! Harlan Ellison,
Science Fiction's angry guy is coming to town for a special reading/
autograph session. He'll be at the
Robson Square Conference Center
on Sunday, May 24th, 8 pm. Tix are
20 bucks through TicketMaster...
Michael John Thompson is now
settled in his new bookstore. He's
at 311 West Cordova (near Cambie) and has an amazing selection
of SF, Horror and mystery
stuff...When you visit Michael's
shop make sure to drop by Colophon Books which is just down the
block (and up the stairs) at 407 W.
Cordova.
PEOPLE ARE READING
Hey all you Girly-Girls and Fanboys...ever wonder what people are reading? I do. Peter Bagge subtext's fave comix guy who lives in Seattle
with his wife and small child—so ladies he's "taken", enjoy the art and THAT'S ALL-took the time to write and tell "Subtext."
Peter Bagge's Top Ten Comics
1. Dirty Plotte: By a young Montreal native named Julie Doucet.
Julie's artwork is both cute and gross at the same time, while her self
portrayal in her autobiographical stories is of a liberated woman/
degenerate slut. Clearly this book is a study in opposites!
in the world right n<
5. Real Stuff: True-Lifes tales written by Dennis Eichhorn, a
past," and illustrated by a variety of talented artists. Told in a i
Hemingwayesque style. Very entertaining.
3. Love & Rockets: Romantic, quirky, melodramatic, realistic, surreal, dense, idiosyncratic, unique, one-of-a-kind artistic visions from
Gilbert and Jaime Hernandez.
4. Peep Show: A brand new title by Toronto resident Joe Matt.
Woody Allen/R. Crumb inspired slice-o-life tales of women troubles
and other forms of neurotic behavior. This guy's got problems!
2 E_R_£uj
6. Slut Burger: Yet another collection of autobiographical stories (as is the
case w/all greal writing) by Mary Fleener, a "woman with a past."
Vancouver-bom Fleener works in a semi-cubist style that is very effective
& appealing.
7. Steven: An annual collection of the weekly comic strip by Doug Allen.
Surreal, nihilistic and laugh-out-loud funny.
8. Unsupervised Exislance: Terry Laban jusl discontinued this first-rate
title about polilicaly-correct-yet-socially-inepl bohemians, but plans to start
a new and improved comic entitled Cud. Look for it! I guarantee that it will
be great!
9. Yahoo: Barely coming out once a year, this catch-all comic by Joe
Sacco improves by leaps and bounds with each issue. Globe-trotting
Sacco(whois currently living in the West-Bank in Palestine!) manages
to combine world-wide historical events with his own pathetic personal
problems with devestating effect.
10. Yummy Fur: The long-running title by the greatest artist in Canadian
history, Chester Brown. Please don't tell me you've never heard of it.
P.S. You may have noticed a lot of Canadian artists listed above are
Canadian. How ironic, considering that Canada's new "anti-pornography" laws are making it next to impossible for you lo buy these master
works of art, let alone the "illicit contraband" imported from the U.S. Do
something about this, will you? Vote the fascists out! Words and Pictures
DO NOT CAUSE "crimes"! (Meanwhile, we've got our own little
Hitlers to contend with down here...) COME AND
GET IT!
!!_£_*"■*■*
*T *V   £?_5    V x^JM
'TRc/ASt/CEOF... J
..wn/rFf) zA/Mn/v n/u/n/us
\OPENDAM WDM-LATE 1152 DENM UPMt)] 689-1112
L._TTr
***£#
VANCOUVER
we will be host-
onal Campus and # '
..iy Radio Conferee from July 642 right '
.iere on the West Coast...if
you want to find out how
you can distribute your ■-
d promotion ■
MELD   OVER
JJr Simw   „*
_PCoi*»ieva
FROM
s84.99
DOC MARTENS - DESIGNER T- SHIRTS
MOTORCYCLE JACKETS
ETHNIC CLOTHING & JEWELRY
HUGE SELECTION OF VINTAGE CLOTHING
DECADENCE
1432 Commercial Drive
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK        251 -7833 VANCOUVER'S Ol^i_V TUCSfcAV   N»T€
BEFORE
NO
CODE
4l
DRiHK
SP£C/ALS
(2 FORT)
wmfflmmmm
May 1-2 SHERMAN ROBERTSON from Chicago
May 4, 11, 18, 25 OLIVER & THE ELEMENTS
May 5-9 INCOGNITO with CD release party on the 6th
May 12 13 ORIGINAL SINNERS
May 14 15 AL WALKER BAND video release party
May 19-23  LIZ MANDEVILLE w/ THE DEMONS
May 26-27   THE VAQUEROS
May 28-30   THE BEL-AIRS
DON! MISS MUMS JAMS:
SATURDAY 3-8 PM / SUNDAY BLUES MARATHON JAM 3PM - MIDNIGHT
JACK LA VIN'S JAMS ARE SPONSORED BY MOTHER'S MUSIC AND THE DRUM SHOP
OPEN EACH NIGHT FROM 9:30 PM TO 1:30 AM OPEN WEEKDAYS FROM 1l:3(
BEfSliEStfS CH^DfclW
IN   STORES   TUESDAY,   MAY   5
"Check Your Head" is an audio head trip,
featuring 20 songs chock full of street
smart lyrics, heavy grooves and infectious
rhymes balanced with occasional sing-a-long
melodies. More than just samples, the band
plays 70% of the music live in the studio.
At a time when streamlined, clear-cut,
transparent music is the first order of the
day, the Beastie Boys have made an album
that will make Kasey Kasem's face melt.
Downto
*n
/ancouv
South Vancouver
East Va
ICO
jver
Metrotown Burnaby
North Surrey
Downtown  Victoria
556 Seymour St.
687-5837
732 SW Marine Dr
321-5112
3422 E Hastings (.
t Cass
iar) 298-0464
5568  Kingsway
439-0223
10280 - 135th St.
589-7500
541   Yates  St.
385-1461
9 Commercial  St.
753-3241 To make six Dr. Zed's Magic Hot Snow Dogs
you'll need:
2 eggs at room temperature
3 small jelly rolls cut in half the long way (Nardwuar
and I substituted 1/2 large chocolate log) and
your favourite ice cream
Making the Snow Blankets:
1. Preheat the oven to 500 F (25CC).
2. Separate the eggs.
3. Beat the whites till they make soft peaks.
4. Add the sugar a little at a lime, continuing to beat
until the mixture becomes very' stiff and shiny (aboul
fiveminutes). (I recommend using aboul half the sugar
'cause even though Nardwuar was pretty polite I
thought it was really too sweel.)
Making your Hot Snow Dogs:
1. Pul the six halved jelly rolls (Hal side up) on an
ungreased baking tray and put a slice of ice cream on
top of each roll.
2. Spread the egg-white blanket to a depth of 4 cm (we
only did 2 cm) over the top and sides of the rolls and
ice cream. N.B. THERE MUST BE NO ICE CREAM
SHOWING.
3. Pop the tray into the oven for 3-5 minutes until the
snow dogs are lightly browned on top. Eat them as
soon as they come oul of the oven!
(OWL Magazine recipe)
April has been darn exciting. On the 14th Heimlich
Manoeuvre Mindy came
on my show: we made
Lemon Meringue Pie with
matzoh meal and she read
The Magician, a Passover
story. The week before,
Nardwuar the Human Serviette and I worked miracles with Dr. Zed's Magic
Hot Snow Dogs a.k.a. Putting Ice Cream in the Oven.
Egg beaters were the instrument of choice this
month. Suggested soundtracks: The Flying Bulgar
Klezmer Band and Toronto's Snow Dogs.
Mindy: "I think I'm going to have to move, Helen, because I'm burning my knees."
As we go to press, Kerry K. and I are still s***ting the delicious Ukrainian
Cabbage Rolls we made for Orthodox Easter. Check my "On the Dial" listing for
more amazing radio recipes in May.
See you in the kitchen!
Dlali/ip for Cdebriti&e
"I can't right now, gotta go. Maybe next week or something?"
With that my interview ended in a dial tone. My double Damned Black Album came to an end and
I realized my deadline would not be met, not that it really matters but it sounds dramatic. Then it struck
me, dialing for celebrities. Who would be my first...hmmmm... Aaaah, Dave Vanian! Ya, okay so I'm
a big Damned fan but wouldn't it be swanky to get an interview?!
I gave the old BC Tel operator a call and she kindly patched me through to London's information
operator to whom I inquired about the number of Dave Vanian. I ended up with eight numbers and began
calling. Well, for all you kids out there planning on calling Marky Mark, or your favourite Sub Pop
character, or even Burl Ives, please get your parents' permission before dialing, I don't want irate parents
throwing phone bills at mc.
So, I started dialing. I was lold to get lost (in much nastier words), an elderly lady informed me he
had passed away (oops), and some were nice and reminded me that there is a time difference between
England and the "continent."! was down to my last number and I had to get an interview... and I did. With
David Vanian, plumber...
Excubus: So you're not Dave Vanian lead singer ofthe Damned?
David: Nope. Who is he?
Lead singer of the Damned, you know that punk rock band.
Oh like The Clash or something.
Ya kinda, I guess you aren't him huh?
No, I'm a plumber.
Cool.
Don't you feel stupid calling up people you don't know. It seems like a bit of a waste of time.
Thanks Dave.
Oh, okay bye.
So it wasn't Dave Vanian of the Damned but next time I'll get a real celebrity, or one of the
Vasectemoids. Hey, there arc 2 David Cassidys in the Vancouver phone book, you don't think...?
Til next lime, you run lo the store I need a cigarette.
Excubus Manslaughter
The Magician by Uri Shulevitz
Illustration by I.L. Peretz, 1973
$10pp<1*
NEW/        M£|C£S       7"       OUTSOOr4:SYBU.  £P.'
MUPHQN)Er/6A5 HUFFER  split 7"
P.O. 0OX   I2°34
I SEATTLE, IrVA 98»°2
itoraiB. ^Y M»Ri>Ayi
may(J) Scooter did it!
It seems like only yesterday—actu-
allyitwas 1985—when I got caught
up in this, then virtually brand new,
sport of snowboarding. Thehill was
Lake Louise and I was fortunate
enough to be an employee in that
said area, so boarding during each
and every free
unusual and v
a way of life for
the habi
of   the
ing they could manipulate their
board. Only then were we given a
plastic photo ID (a passport for us
supposed foreigners to the hill), sent
on our way, and told to forsee all
rights to the skiers of the hill. Then
again, maybe it hasn't evolved
that much. Snowboard-
s and skateboard -
your 9 to 5
workers to get'
out of bed
commute, do the1
corporate grind^
and then go home^
toawifeand2.3kids,^
B for us
 Bof the mountain to get out of bed,
into some deep back-country, do
the anti -corporate shred and then go
home to a strong Spani sh coffee and
bed. Thankfully, things haven't
changed lhat much.
That same year I picked up a
skateboard and applied the adrenalin rush of snowboarding to a dryland workout: skateboarding. The
feeling of control and rebellion were
10X thai of snowboarding, in a different magnitude, and still are to
this day. Popping frontside ollies
off a cheaply made quarter-pipe with
metal copings for the first time is
something I'll always remember(no-
body wants to remember the first
time they slammed). In comparison
to today's finely crafted, 28" con-
re masterpieces, the skateboards
of yesteryear—a 6"xl8" slab of
polyurethane with rubber wheels—
re but crude and prim- ■
e tools to help mold ^^^"l
the sport for future great-
Fortunately, for all
of us snowboarding, like
skateboarding, has
evolved a long way from
the days wht
boarders were required
n onhill test prov
laws.howev-
:r,mostlyby the skiing community who feel
that we're raping them of their
is, or the ill-informed parent who fear their children being
drawn into these sports promoting
chemical abuse and anarchy. C'est la
vie. The equipment, through stronger
craftsmanship, has lightened and
become less constrictive allowing
snowboarders/skateboarders to conquer terrain that was once unimaginable.
Well, that terrain that was
once unimaginable has now also
been shredded by the creative genius of Kevin McBride and Marcus
Rogers at Cinestir Productions.
Northern Rage is their finished
product and it, gratifyingly, carries
the title of being the firsl video to
successfully hybrid the skateboard-
ing/snowboarding craze, and the
first to attempt this seemingly ob-
nplianttask. With the
two sports undoubtedly influencing each other—although more than
a few choose to deny it—the
groundwork for ihe video had already been laid thanks lo the way
the two have risen in the public eye
(whether from good or bad press,
who knows). Cinestir's idea, and
role, now was to coagulate skateboarding and snowboarding in an
ordained marriage...that marriage
being Northern Rage.
An  easy  task?...somewhat.
Kevin And Marcus are bolh veterans
lo the film-making circuit—dating
back totheirmergerin film school—
and have done some prestigious work
in the past, so the Northern Rage
project was a logical and welcome
inevitability. (Mosl notably, their
orks have included videos for
Slows" Have Not Been The
Same,"       Tankhog's
"Woke Up In Love This
Morning," work on the
Propaganda and X-Rated
videos for Powclt-Peralta,and
spective/documentary on DOA).
Northern Rage, however, was more
than a labour of love for the duo as
they are both avid skaters/boarders.
Consequentially, the filming of
Northern Rage was done first hand
by people who knew what they wanted, what to look for, and what to
have because they participate in both
sports. "It's a skateboard/snowboard movie made by and for
skateboarders/snowboard-
ers," simply states Kevin.
But that isn't all that
seperates this film from
the rest of the skateboard/snowboard
Not only
did McBride and
Rogers pioneer
the   way   in
splicing the
from any rider interviews
and they made the soundtrack as
primary as the foolage for the video.
"No interviews," says Marcus, "we
movie over and over again, the first
time you hear a five minute interview is
the last time you want to hear il. I think
interviews are a cop out to all the other
producers that are doing it, it's just
screen killer. Why talk aboul it? You
can't, that's why we made a movie
Not to downplay the talent and
the expertise of the riders but considering their careers are based on
their skills, it's more than a good
idea to let iheir actions do the talking
for them. And whal a voice those
riders have. Included on the 50
minute shredfest are ihe talents of:
Plan B's Rick Howard, Danny Way,
and the best amateur skater in North
America, Colin McKay; Sims' Dave
Achenbach, not to be outdone by
brother Ken; Alex Warburton; Ran-,
dy Friesen; Eric Dressen; Christian
Hosoi; Omar Hassan, and Real's
Sluggo. With this kind of talent il's
not surprising lo see f i rst-lime snowboard descents off of Wedge
Mountain("Thal's insanity man,"
says Kevin.)and the Tantalus Range,
or extreme action from Ml. Bachelor, lackson Hole, Snowbird and
Whistler/Blackcomb—or for that
matter, theunbelievable street, ramp,
and bowl riding filmed in Las Vegas
and Vancouver.
Serve up a large dollop of great
local talent from Tankhog, Slow,
Roots Round Up, Gorilla Gorilla, Elvis Uve Child, Chris
Houston, and oth-
would sponsor it." This title is only
partially true because allhough there
arequiteafew sponsors for thcNorth-
ern Rage project, there is not an
exclusive sponsor, and only a hand]
ful were with the project from the;
inception like Petersen Prodi
Chromaphobia, Concrete Powdei
Magazine and Westbeach. Basically, the Cinestir boys had lo i
prove themselves before any-
body would lake ihe lure
"We had to shoot a lot of
stuff atthe beginning and
just show everyone and mm
about   this,"   says
McBride left no
doubt that, indeed,
they were scnous
about this project,
taking only a year
from inception to
completion of the
video and, all the
while, pulling their
own snowboarding
hobbies on the back
burner. "It's not too
goodonyoursnow-
boarding, having to
carry around gear all the
my worst season ever," states Kevin.
"We thought it would be agas,"
adds Marcus. "We'd do one run all
day. I'd take the gondola up to the top
of Whistlerand climban ice field, all
before breakfast, and get to the top
jusl dying...9500 feet with a pack of
Camels in you and 50 pounds of
camera gear, skiis, and poles on
your back isn't fun."
But, finally, the hard work is
done and thanks to the assistance
of Petersen Productions and Cra-
zyman, their graphic artist, everybody can rest for awhile. However,
their definition of rest seems to be
alot different from the traditional
meaning. Most of iheir time is now
gobbled up by shopping the Northern Rage video around to distributors, fulfilling all the mail-order requests, and entering the video in
different film festivals. Just recently
Northern Rage garnered some fairly
impressive response at the Action
Sports Convention in San Diego, the
Film Festival in Japan, and
the 7th International Winter Sports
val! So, it is safe to say that the
bills are getting paid, what with the
video going worl wide and majordis-
tribution deals looming on the horizon. And while Cinestir Productions
does all the behind the scenes stuff
now, fans can look forwardtoafollow-
up to the Northern Rage video to come
in ihe not-so-far-off future.
"Yeah.lhcre'stalkaboutasequel.Sou//!-
ern Rage, down in South America. It
would probably be surfing, snowboarding in the Andes, and whatever kind of
skateboarding we could pick up on
down in South America. We might
start lhat process again in a year," enthusiastically stales Marcus.
So, those of us who have been
stoked on Northern Rage so far will
just have to remain so for a bit longer;
shouldn't be a problem. It's just nice to
know that with so many internal problems facing the future of skateboard-
ing/snowboarding somebody has taken on ihetask of removing the blemishing stigma. Hopefully, Northern Rage
can bringthetwo sports toan integrated
harmony and at the s£
open a few of the
closed minds oul there.
Like Marcus says, "It really ended up spelling out
the closeness and the relationship between the two
sports." See for yourself;
order Northern Rage
by phone at 1-800- From my stereo, great slabs of sound
make their way out of my apartment,
forging beyond that which is consid -
ered my place. They seep through
windows, cracks in doors, copper
pipes, any space of least resistance
where they hope to flourish in the
openness. The bits, unable to properly stretch out, reverberate off my
walls and clamour about my kitchen
sink, generally doing nothing to im-
STEVE WELLS
So what is it that determines when
the record is going to appear domestically? Surely, based on the
success the record had in England
you would think that they might
have pushed it a tittle better.
Yeah... it' s some chap in an office at
the top of the RCA building. Even
from an outsiders view it seems like
a stupid position because I think
something like 30 or 40 thousand
records came in on import anyway.
They could havesold them, andprob-
when all those bands were suddenly
acquiring these funky dance beats
and we were off to America to record
with Steve Albini, which is aboul the
furthest you can gel away from a
funky dance beat, really. Itwas purely
by chance because we had all been
really big fans of his work, it just
happened. In 1987 we fit into the
scene because George Best was very
"of the moment" but since then we
have stayed clear of all of that.
Have you made a return visit to
the amplifier** and playing live, really. We've, in some ways, always
shied away from studio gadgelry and
laying down loads of tracks, and
spending days and days trying to
perfect a guitar part. It is mainly the
atmosphere you get when four guys
play live together, and of course
Albini is really up for that, so it went
easily, it only took twelve days.
You have had a line up change
since you were last in Canada, can
you speak about why Peter left?
this massive voice. I think il sounds
quite exciting when the voice is in
there battling wilh the guitars and I
don't think it matters if you hear
every word, as long as the overall
mood comes ihrough; lhat is the
important thing.
At the same time I don't want to
downplay some of the things that
you write about. Some might consider your lyrics as simple and not
too adventurous but basically you
are writing about some things that
at least stress the music rather
than the liner notes.
I think so; I'll always be more con*
cemed that the music speak on be*
half of the group rather than some
flashy, scantily clad women on the
CQver. Our friend that does the artwork for the records is very fond of
minimalist graphics and things, soil
fits in wilh our group quite well,
really.
I WEDDING PRESENT
prove my status as a tenant. Fuck
roomates and respect for their space,
this is the god damned WEDDING
PRESENT: masters of subtlety and
noise al the very same time...volume
is essential. Do you make an omelette without the eggs'.'
At the best of limes, on songs
like"Dare","Lovenesf',and"Flcsh-
world", somelhing that can only be
described as a vibrating chunk of
feedback elevating ihe songs to a
rarely visited, often sought-afler,
precipice where! he listener will stand
tempered with equal portions of reluctance and lure, above the divine
pit of music, tempting fate. Wash in
the familiar svalers of The Wedding
Present, smear mud on your skin,
tangle in kelp,; and beware of
Seamonstersl
David Gedge, singer/guitarist
forthe band, spoke with me from the
Aristocrat Hotel in Dallas, Texas,
mid-stride through their current tour.
After several years of success in
Britain does the prospect of winning fans in America inspire you
or is it just a road that has to be
travelled down?
ably
been cheaper and made quite a bit
money but there you go. I mean, i1
Ins,
come and play, not particularly because il is like starting from the bot-
alfy play small venues.In Britain we
have to play these 3000 capacity
places, like bams! These are not
exciting places to sec a group because the sound is always poorand it
isquile a cold atmosphere. It is really
good over here, better for everyone
really, it's more intimate and you
can talk to people as well.
T"he domestic release on Seamon-
sters was something like nine
months after the British reicaseof
the record, are you beginning to
find it tiresome talking about a
record for so long?
It would be weird, but acluaLly I'm
quile proud of-lalrecord soil doesn't
bother me too muchplt would be
different if it was one of the other
records which I am not as proud of
like George Best, which I don't particularly like anymore. But Seamon-
steris is still a good record and it
means a lot tome, so I'm slill quite
happy to talk about it. Pm just sorry
RCA didn't release it al ihe same
titwe everywhere else around the
world. A lot of fans in North Amer
ica had
they w
:«__»*"
; a shame that weactuajly stopped
doing lhat because that was a regular
thing in Britain. When wc came lo
North America w
id offended a lol ol
(uptight)  people ;■'- - -
people love il. It is happ
bands like Ride and Li
been darlings of the pa-
couple of years.
In North America I can see audiences turning onto you as a way to
get away from the ever present
"British DanceWand." You stayed
away from that scene, or in fact
ing record, some of this has to do
with Steve Albini but a lot of credit
is due to you guys as well. The
drums sound so huge and crisp
and the guitars are natural and
unleashed in a way. What sort of
ideas did you guvs run through
before going in  to make this
see that happer
We have alway
stincts reaUynW
venpartotit
just very real: a normal group.
npfWoayipr
rfcoi-Ceefting
naWiipment, going inlo a big
ill) good sounds on
I have always thought
that make up the music in The
Wedding Present were of equal
worth and that no part garnered
more attention than any other. Do
you find that many people place
too much of an emphasis on what      happen tome, (laughs)
you are saying rather than how it
tits into the song?
Yes, they do. I'm afraid 1 probabb
have to agree with you, the lyr
The press has been very fa'
able for Seamonsters and v
like caterwauling, hypnotic
cathartic are being thrownan
Arcyou pleased thewaytherei
has been accepted by people?
I don'l really care to Ik honest
Steve, to me the album is
' if 1 like il and if the rest o
likes il. If people think
gnJPi, fine, I am really pleased, a
ihJH don'l lhat's alright. People
peel groups want lo be ihc bigges
group in the world and everyone
should love them bull think lhal lha
could be one of the worst things tc
.I.P(Reccptio
re You Being S
a packages
vcly simple i
ally just the souk titles and Ii
intheHikcanextra instalment rather      else. thcr. seems to be an effo
than these Phil Collins types with       achieve some sort of an...
George Best LP (Recepti.
UkrainsktVftupiv J ohm.
(Reception) 1988
Tommy \M
Why Are f
| Now? EP (Retention) 1
Janice LonglEvenin)
(Strange-Fruit) 1988
Kennedy EP (RCA) 1989
llizarro 11> (RCA) 1989
8ra.ssnetkYA>(RC.\)\990
Corduroy LP (RCA) 1990
Seamonsters LP (RCA) 1W2'
MAY^) - DIGITAL. POODLE 'Soul Crush* DOVoCD 88 - Tekno-core brain stompersl
- DIGITAL. POODLE 'Work Terminal' DOVeGCD 391   - Tho German remix album!
• MICHAEL PERILSTEIN 'Elephants Gliding On  Ice* DOVeCD 122 - Tho Residents go to tho circusl
• PRODUCERS FOR BOB 'Bob's Media Ecology' DOVoCD  14-4- - Perceptual dogma for our times!
- HYBRIDS 'The Ritual Must Be Kept Alive Rt. 2' - Dark, ritualistic ambience & percussion I
- PHAUSS/KARKOWSKI/BILTING - Electro-accoustic experiments from those Swedish artists!
- DINO OON/KONRAD KRAFT 'Environmental Studios* - Melodic electronics produced by Rink Dots!
- TYPE fMOlM 'Phantasmagoria' - Crystalline electro-kinetics like early Cabsl
- X-*1 Ol  'Underground Resistance' - Superhard Detroit techno from ox- Final Cut noisestersl
• SOME MORE CRIME 'Code Opera' - Electro-body-beats from the sweatlands of Belgium!
- RRREPORT 2 - Japanese noise compilation/magazine with Vasilisk. Hanatarash and more!
- NOCTURNAL EMISSIONS 'Viral Shedding'&'Cathedral' - Electro-pioneering and mind-engineering!
UPCOMING  MAY / JUNE:
- DIN 'Fantastic Planet' DOVeCD  166 - Tekno Boogie Disko for froysl
- SUCKING CHEST WOUND 'God Family Country' DOVoCD188 - Classic conspiracy hip-hop!
- HORIZON 222 'Through Tho Round Window' DOVeCD 222 - Ambient U.K. trance-dance!
- RAPOON 'Dream Circle' DOVeCD 244 - Middle Eastern experimental Banghra beats!
- ZOVIET FRANCE 'Popular Soviet Songs...' DOVoCD 266 - Triple CD Box re-release!
c
All of these releases are available at finer stores everywhere, or directly from DOVe.
We take Canadian C.O.D. orders and major credit cards! Call or write for our latest catalogue!
__ Bloor St.W. - Suite  1 00-1 59 - Toronto -  M4-W 3E2 - Tel: -4-1 6."766.961 _> -  Fax: 41 6."766.1 041
J
■ nto-fc»aeed   project Pf?ODOCERS *=•<_*>*=- BOB announce t*-»«_> forthcomIr-*g  release-:af"'
la   Ecology"  <DOVe     _•«»-<♦)   on   <-«_>mp><_i<_t <_Jlf=K_:  and   <=aseette.   TMo  att_»«_im   Is a     tranem.tatlon   af
p-culture 0ound« and    tho almighty ©poKen word.  ae aooomblod  from media guru Bob
fc>fc>s*     radio   broadcasts  between   ivas ar,<X  l«-»«^1.     Sob will  update  gour conclousno»_ on
the control which th«    mythic goveremont exerclsea over ox.tr lives.  an<_f   pro-  scribes  much
hee-ded antidotes  to overcoming these  powerful forces.     "This will be required   lists hing far
■who -want   ta +cnow   how to avoid  ths count-  down  to  captivity,  and   those   preparing   far
furturo employment.
**or further Information,  interviews or advance copies, contdct;
OOVentertalnment Inc   •:-;  =_■ «3loor «=fct.  w.   #*ioo-i •_;«»►  ~ Tdronta <Z<c*r\<xc*<=t   •   *-*4W 3G2
T*U  *1«.766.»61»  •   FOX41A.7A6.1041
th Sot too long ago I was asked
if I wanted to write this
    article, (do the interview)
I instantly jumped for joy and said
"Hell yeah!" Since I was a fan of Bad
Religion and knew a bit about them,
well.... What never crossed my mind
was the nervousness factor. I was so
excited that it never really clicked
that it was, infact, Bad Religion. I
mean, they've been around for 12
years, they set the standard for local
punk (or otherwise, for that matter.)
I quickly remembered back 12 years;
I was in elementary school, and had
no idea who Bad Religion were.
Well time flies as they say
and not long after the inception
of the band I had traded my
marbles for a skateboard, and all of
a sudden I was into Bad Religion.
Their newest release is called Generator, and once again, they have
outdone themselves (and everyone
else). Greg's remarkable melodies
continue to stand out, while the in-
tensedual guitar sound of Brett Gure-
witz and Greg Hetson, combined
with the rhythm section of bassist
Jay Bentiey and new drummer Bobby Schayer, paint an unforgiving
picture. The lyrics, as always, cannot be easily put aside without a
second thought. Bad Religion is
"thinking man's hardcore" and think
you must when you feel the intensity of
the songs' meanings. Buy this album.
My nervousness soon passed
when I began chatting with bassist
Jay Bentiey. As I had expected he: a)
is a really nice guy, b) has alot to say
and isn't afraid to speak his mind,
and c) is very well versed. What
follows is the interview, and I hope
that this will clear up any questions
or thoughts anyone has about the
band. I hope everyone comes out to
support them the next time they
meander into our fine city.
Discorder: In the past, particularly the past 2 years, I've read re-
s that say Bad Religion is
stuck in a rut, and he's done the same
thing for 20 years, right? I think what
got more people to say that, other
than the fact the records sound the
same, is that we're pretty prolific
and  we pul out a record year
after year.  I  agree
the
$4
Where is the first show ofthe tour?
The first show is down in Tijuana,
the lasl show is in Dusseldorf, then
home. [As you read this Bad Religion are back at their respective
nests and enjoying the fruits of a well
received mini-tour. Ed.)
When's the band going on an all
stops North American tour?
In June we'll go back to F.urope and
do 31 plus days and then in
July   we'll   hit  the
States.
s different.
)l going
Gene
changed things
to say he's a better drummer lhan
Peter but he has a wider tempo range
so that allowed us to play with songs
and make them mid-tempo instead
of eilher fast or slow. It's definitely
a natural progression. We've been
doing this for 12 years, you have
tochange somehow. 1 guess il would
be like working al McDonalds, you
start making hamburgers alot faster;
the longer you're ihere, the crispier
your fries gel
Qaughler)
Greg is in New York pursuing his
doctrine?
His Phd in Evolutionary Biology.
Docs that make it difficult for the
Surprisingly, we play more shows.
That's probably a direct result of the
bandgain ing popularity bulit doesn't
seem to affect recording at all. He'll
fly oul here, we'll record a record in
two weeks and have it mixed and
everything, so he takes two weeks
off, plays hookey, and then goes
practice goes,
V)
'U
stuck in a rut, it all sounds the
same, and what not. Generator
has a slightly different sound,
was this a conscious effort on the
band's part or a natural progression?
Jay: I didn't consider it stuck in a
rut, I considered it what we do.
Nobody ever said Neil Young was
band will practice without Greg, and
then he'll fly oulwhen wctour. Like,
we have a show tomorrow. So today
is the only day out of the whole year
that we'll practice with Greg, so
we'll be practicing for 1 Ohours which
is about how many hours we normally practice in a year. So we make
it all up, we squeeze it all in to one day.
a club or something, you're part of
lhat happening thing. Everyone
wants to promote everybody else as
equally as themseleves, whereas if
you were on another label, with 30
plus bands or more, you're kind of
Brett seems to be quite the busy
producer. I've noticed that he's
done Samiam, Dag Nasty, and
Down By Law, to name only a few.
You could probably look on almost
every independant release coming
out of L.A. and his name would be
on it somewhere. He jusl docs it
because that's his olher job. He owns
the sludio, people come in, they like
the sound that he's got and they say,
" I wanna sound like Dag Nasty. I
want to sound like this. 1 want this
kind of guitar sound." He knows
exactly whal il is, so they ask for him
in particular. Nowadays he doesn't
have lhat kind of lime to have his
name on that many records, so he's
kinda picking and choosing the
bands that he thinks arc
susbands he
bf Joeliaela Fraser
head up here,
hopefully.
I think that's gonna be later
on in the year, lo do another West
Coast all the way up to Canada,
because everybody seems to like the
winter time in Canada.
So it's you and Brett that work at
Kpitaph? What exactly doyou guys
do there (as part owners)?
I think the proper question would be,
what don't we do there? There's five
full time employees so we basically all^j
have our hands on everything.
All the bands at Epitaph arc friends,
is it like a brotherhood thing?
Yeah, we have nine bands on the
label and it is kind of a family thing:
you come in, you help the bands, you
get shows for everybody, you play
shows with the otherbands,one band
promotes another band. Because we
have so few bands it's easy forall the
bands to know each other. So, being
Epita
struggle
wilh t
How did Bobby Schayer
(new drummer) join the band?
Peter left tojoin another band, callc
the Fisherman, and at the lime
:. Il v.
cause we don't tour 9 months out of
the year so we ribbed him about it
but the band got signed to a major
label. In the process of signing the
contract, Peter noticed a clause lhat
said none of the members of the
band could play with any other bands.
So, now he had a choice to make: he
could either sign onto a major wilh
this band the Fisherman, or he could
not sign, basically quit the Fisherman, and stay wilh us. He chose the
Fishennan.
So he didn't leave on a sour note?
No, nol at all. In a way il was a shock
because we'd played with him for 10
years, so it was kinda hard to lose a
friend. Its not like I lost a friendship
but when you spend lhal much time
wilh somebody, you get used to their
face and used to them being out on
the road with you. When he left we
had drummer try-outs and 2 drummers showed up. Bobby was the
second drummer and hcknew all our
songs, so we didn't have lo leach
him anything. Il was unbelievable!
He got up on his drums and said
"What song do you want to play?"
And we're kinda being smug, and
say "Well, whal songs doyou know?"
and he said "All of ihem." We said
"Alright,let'splayasongfroml982,
off'ihcHowCouldHellBeAny Worse
album." He's all "Which one?""Um,
'In The Night'". And he's like
"Okay." And he played it, we're like
With some bands you can just listen to an album, brush it off without thinking. Bad Religion is more
like "thinking man's hardcore"
because the lyrics have a helluva
lot of relevance, and alot of meaning and emotion in them. Does
that come from Greg's educational background?
He and Brett both do lhal (write
^
lyncs) and I think it's
effort, that's the way they are. They
like to explain things in ways that
explain it precisely, they're not really vague when they want to tell you
somelhing. Brcll says, "I like to give
somebody options as to what I'm
saying." Differentinterpretations are
to different people. Greg's the same
way Alot of his schooling in Evolutionary Biology involves geology
studies, he's a well versed person in
terms of what's happening with the
planet, and I think that angers him.
This is truly evident in Greg's
lyrics. Case in point: "Modem Man"
off 1990's Against The Grain: I've
got this one problem: will I Uve
forever? I've got jusl a short time
:c/ modem man/ evolutionary betrayer/
modem man/
*Q
s)sl
destroyer/
modern man/ destroy yourself in shame/
modem man/ pathetic example
of earth's organic heritage/ when I
look back and think/when I ponder
and ask " why?"/I seemy ancestors
send with careless abandon, assuming eternal supply/modem man.../
jusl a sample of carbon based wastage/jusl a fucking tragic epic of
"In s
s    Vol
-I   Ii,.'
cmng
pleasure. On another hand, if you' re
kinda thinking about it, it brings
you deeper into it, I know it does
for mc. I always end up asking,
'Greg, what docs that mean?' I
have the benefit of getting the direct interpretation."
The chat relumed lo Pegboys
open challenge (in Thrasher) to play
hockey against Bad Religion .and
U.S. fanzines such as Flipside and
Maximum R&R, bolh of whom do
nol eagerly support the band becaus
.) big.
Jay had
iolc"pur
>say about the wl
lhanthou" scene.
"1 think lhal the idea is, in order
lo be 'more alternative than...' you
have to like a band that no one has
ever heard of. 'lhat's your way of
being better lhan your peers, by saying 'Idon't likethem anymore,I like
this band that nobody's heard of.
They're MINE, I'm the only one
who knows aboul them.' It gels fnis-
rtraling because you don'l want to
lose your friends and somel imes you
gel an altitude lhal doesn 'l make any
'l think aboul il
olhmk
aboul than whal somebody thinks
Talk then turned lo Washington's passing of Bill 2554, which
enables the government lo control
what kids under 18 can buy at a
record store. "Censorship is a giant
issue, because, on one hand.you don't
ever want to have it threatening your
direct activities. On the other hand.if
there was no censorship at all.you
would have a lot of crap: a lot of
things lhat don.l need to be seen or
heard.or objected upon people. I'm
one of the people that believes if you
don't like what's on TV .turn the
channel and don't complain about it.
If you don't like the record.take the
needle off and sell it or throw it
away. I have a son now.and if he's
eight years old watching
television.he might not have lhat
mentality lo turn the channel. He
might feel he has to watch orlisten to
this because that's what's on. I think
that's good thai somebody's
watching,I just wish it w
with a little m
We then stray to more idle talk
in which Jay tells me that they once
played        infront        of
40,000(yes,FORTY
THXSWDJnrt
5ty-
a festivz
confides lhat he
look  up,"
ear.Hc als
l of
xied that there has
been a lot of Elvis
Costello.Kate Bush,and
Jiat good ol' Vancouver comp)77ie Lasl
Call receiving attention on
his CD player lately .When
talk lums to touring stories.Jay
concurs: "We don't party,no backstage hoo-haws, it's (louring) just
somelhing we like to do.
Honestly,when we're in the van.we
play chess! The craziest things happen onslage.and it's usually the fans
getting carried away,and we look at
lhal and go 'Wow.thal was amazing!' We're pretty mellow people."
Jay then discussed how the
band met and began in high
school.then started Epitaph out of
ihe fear of being shot down by olher
record labels. Obviously, Epitaph
has grown and Jay says lhat the past
two years have been the most successful. As the conversation winds
down, Jay has an idea for an experiment lo try at a certain club with a
spring-loaded dance floor (the band
may be booked there when they
come around) "We'll try to gel as
many people as we can up on stage
lo jump on one comer of the dance
floor. Then have you standing on
the olher comer to sec if you can
get shot up in the air.I think we
could do it! (laughter)
Well, I'm up for anything, and
that ended my conversation wilh
Jay. I can easily conclude lhal I will
be looking forward to seeing their
ultra-light live show later this year (I
may be airbom if our little experiment works out). I hope I have helped
lo shed some light on the lopic of
Bad Religion, and if you don't have
Generator, what the hell is wrong
with you?
BADRHJGION
MAY ^) Howdy kids. I lope you all had as good
an Easter as I did. I sure came upon a lot
of seven inches! I've got so many lo
review this month I'm gonna dive
straight in. My onlymessagethismonth
is screw MusicWest. What is the point
ofthe thing? In my eyes it's a corporate
sham of the worst degree. Old guys in
suits who used to be inlo rock and roll
and now only have the means toexploil
independent rock and roll for
SSS$$S.\Whoa, big fellow.Here,have
some Ritalin! Ed.\ Fuck 'cm. If you're
in a band you do not need to play a
MusicWest show. Slick to your own
guns, play your own shows your way,
DI.Y.,andDON'Tbcacorporate whore.
NOW I'm gonna dive straight in...
Final Notice Records, run by one
of the Kings of D.I. Y. philosophy, Kim
Kinakin, (also founderoftheGest Quest
Co-opgigsandmemberof Sparkmarker), hasjusl released athird vinyl ouung
by agroupcalled Phleg Camp.'Ihese
guys hail from Toronto, interestingly
enough, and are certainly very much
punk rock in a DC-core type o'way.
To me they sound a bi t like Fugazi (in
a good way), jusl a bit lighter (in a
good way). "Beaker" is a great song.
Nexl up on the hit parade is a
couple of new releases from Seattle.
The first is a hilarious package from the
eMpTy camp. Il's a split "Kung Fu"
single between Mudhoney and Gas
Huffer. Ihe sleeve is hysterical, featuring Mudhoney and the Huffersuited
up in Kung Fu apparel ready to duel.
On the inside sleeve we are treated to a
live action shot ofthe iwogroups duk-
ing it out! Tom Pnce: master of facial
expression. And the songs are good
too! Gas Huffer chop into a tune
entitled "Knife Manual" that kicks; a
wild rocker one can frug or scissor-
kick to, wilh a great numbchuckin'
guilar solo. Mudhoney's "You Stupid Asshole" is good but it lacks the
real punch that Mudhoney is good for.
Something's missing....It's sounds to
me like Mudhoney got their asses
Huffed in this battle of the groups.
'Ihe other comes from a Seattle
group who isn't gonna get Huffed by
anyone for a while., they are Flop
and they rock.'Iheirnew single (Dashboard Hula Girl Records) is an awe-
slabof power-pop rockin' from
the A-side, "Drugs," lo the B-side, a
revved version of the Sweet's "Ac-
lion." I've heard lots of bands cover
ihis tune (Tankhog, Dirt)butthis rendition beats 'em hands down. And
hey, I lop jusl got signed lo Frontier so
look for the long-player sooner than
'Ihere are several new singles
on the amazing I Iomeslead label of
New Yorkthall'dlikeyoulohear,the
firsl by Unrest, entitled "Bavarian
Mods and Other Hits." I suppose it's
an EP bul, whoa momma, it's strange.
Thegrcal,janglcy,70'spop-style"Ba-
varian Mcxis," is an instant smash
after which you get five minutes of
silence. Then this harmonious, symphonic stuff called "Nova Scotia"
comes on and lasts about 30 sees. Rip
it over and you 've got a dreamy rock
anlhern entitled "God Gave Rock and
Roll to You III" [This wouldn't be the
Kiss anthem, would il? Ed\ A great
single and a sure-lire col lector's item.
Also on I Iomeslead this month
is the way-c(x>l Bratmobile. What a
Now single! Dished up are three
stripped down, simplistic and rockin'
hits from three stylistic mix! chicks of
tomorrow. Yet another example of
the Olympia-Washington-D.C. thing,
mbers live
nDC.
n Oly
And while on Olympia and DC,
twoothersingles from both those lands.
I"he biggest treat this month has got to
be the new Beat Happening single
(Bi Joopitcr Rccords'of England): two
really groovy new Beat Happening
songs "Sea Hunt," a beautiful punk
rock love song, and "Knock On Any
Door," theperfeel B-side. Thecoverof
this British made single is a hand-
painted wood cut lhat looks amazing.
Beat Happening are round in a square
world which is why they roll, and
you don'l.
From DC, Nation of Ulysses
have released a follow up to their outstanding debut LP /3 Point Programto
Destroy America. Ihis single, also on
the Dischord label, unfortunately lacks
the rampaging power 13 Points boasted so strongly. The intensity of the
music is slill burning, it's the actual
songs that lack. Maybe it's just lhat I'm
not really into the vicious jazz-core
stylings of this 7". I must admit I
liked the raw punk-rock power of the
album better.
And now for something completely different: The Bad Livers.
Sound like some sort of car-piercing
'77 punk? That's what I expected from
the obnoxious name to the obnoxious
cover art. Wrong. What we havehere is
some pretty amazing hillbilly cow-
punk! I'm talking super fast fiddles,
banjos and drums, with dead-pan snot
vocals. Check this record out, it's great!
Ihe Bad Livers (who hail from Austin,
I Ihink) are what ihe hillbillies from
Deliverance would sound like if they
pulled their dicks out of Ned Beatty's
butt and formed a band. On Cargo, of
all things.
And for the last installment this
month...Dead Moon! Ihis amazing
trio from Portland, Oregon keep real
garage-psyche rocking with their latest
7" "Fire in the Western World" b/w
"Room 213." "Fire" is a fast, pounding
anthem, and "Room 213" is a scary,
cryptic slow brooder. One of ihe reasons this stuff sounds so authentic is
because it IS. These guys started playing rock and roll in the 60s and still
ARE! Another neato thing about Dead
Moon is that they press all their own
records on a 7" press they bought years
ago at an auction. Turns out lhat the
press ihey bought was the actual one
that made the original Kingmen's
"Louie,Louie"45 back in 1964! How's
that for a bit of historic authenticity?
OK, that wraps il up this month!
Stay luned, word has it thai next month
we can expect a couple of local releases
from Scratch Records, as well a 7"
from fhe Indecisives! Looking forward
For Contest details
see the airhead page
stuff, send two IRCs to: Anterior
Research. P.O. Box 684, Sheffield
5S6 ZEP UK.
Yugoslav funsters Borghesia
also have a new release, Dreamers
in Colour (Play It Again Sam),
which is definitely lighterthan earlier releases. Apparently the music
was originally recorded for "Emotional," a dance perfo
e of a
■e of
BY JUNE SCUDELER
Yippee, it's the continuing saga c
Discorder's induslrial/ambicnl/ex
perimental column. So without fui
TAGC's Meontological Re
search Recordings Teste Tones (Solid Moon) is a truly experimental
work—it's even recorded in the laboratory. According to the linei
notes "mcontology— Basically,on
lology is the science of the meta
physics of being; mcontology there
fore goes beyond this to a scienc
20 [ig^aiiEi__l
parapsychology It
surable and
phen
controllable
msof sound we
are trying lo approximate and create
the frequencies that affect the being
in a physiological, psychological and
meontological sense."
In olher words, prepare yourself for something really weird.
TAGC have found the sounds and
frequencies that will really get under your skin— this is definitely
not background music. For more
the latest Coil efforts, Die Warzau
and Meat Beat Manifesto; in fact
"Emotional Too" features Meat Beat
samples. "Space Cake"has killer, deep
bass and a spacey Indian influence to it.
Two thumbs up— Dreamers in Colour is more focussed and less hokey
than Borghesia's earlier stuff.
1 don't know why but KMFDM
has never really done that much forme.
That is until their latest, Money (Wax
Trax). They still have the cheesy covers, but they've also lightened up. I
think the upsurge of techno has had a
big effect on the more hard-core industrial scene. I borrowed Money from a
friend and found I was pi aying it a lot on
mycarslerco(whichisactuallyalhirty
dollar pink citizen ghelloblastcr nestled in my glove compartment). KMFDM still has the distorted vix_Js and
guilar, but there is a sense of fun and
Money is full of hooks and the tracks
flow together very well. Yeppcrs,
this is a good 'un, especially the
stripped down remake of "Godlike"
called "I Will Pray."
Speaking of techno invading
industrial, everybody's fave robot-
men, Vancouver's Front Line Assembly, have pul out YET ANOTHER side project, intermix
(Third Mind). Besides the sticker
trumpeting "Intermix is Bill Leeb
and Rhys Fulber of FLA," it
shouldn 't take the alert listener long
to figure out who made this CD— it
has the unmistakable FLA harshness. There is al so more bass lhan on
most other FLA stuff. Their single
"Virus" was good, but it neededmore
oomph. Not all the tracks are fast,
some of them are reminiscent of a
mixture of all the best aspects of
FLA, Delerium and Will. Il will be
interesting to see how this does in
clubland considering this is nowhere
near vapid enough for mosl club-
goers.
Also from Canada is DHIwith
their CD Machine Altar Transmission (Fringe). Listeners have asked
me about this band, as there was a
fealure about them on MuchMuzak
and people seemed lo like them.
They use guitars and power tools,
but not in an adventuresome Einsturzende Neubauten \
ever, 1 would like to s
more with the power tc
as in the track "New Vision." Not
bad, more experimentation would
be cool.
And for something completely
different and strange, (and something I hke) is .John Moran's The
Manson Family—An Opera (Point
ay. How-
i Dill do
I schtick,
Music), which I was happy to see
featured in the latest issue oi Reflex
Magazine. According to the liner
notes, "Moran's impressionistic portrait of Charles Manson's macabre
reign of terror incorporates elements
of various snippets from the Beatles' While Album and Manson's
own words....It follows noconven-
tional narrative structure, instead
juxtaposing disturbing vignettes
dealing wilh 'The Family's life at
Spahn Ranch, the Tate murders,
and Manson's trial.'"Iggy Pop also
plays the cop who busts the Man-
son Family. Many people may think
this subject matter is horrible, bul
having a large sick streak I LOVE
IT! Besides, it's pretty good, with
musical weirdness abounding. [If
you also have dubious taste you'll be
glad to know that Eclipse Books
has their own trading cards: "Serial Killers and Mass Murderers."
They have a Jeffrey Dahmer card,
who has mentioned Skinny Puppy
in taped confessions—ooh scary
kids.]
In a more, uh, tasteful note is
the compilation CD Mouvemenls-
Compilation Europeenne (Le Legend des Voix), which features bands
such as England's Muslimgauze,
Germany's Asmus Tietchens
and Zoviet France. This is a very
quiet, atmospheric collection and
is pretty amazing. It has lots of
beautiful moments and is very stalely and contemplative—perfect for
intimate late night chats or if you're
in a creative mode. Candles are
recommended. This is a limited
edition of 1000, get it if you find it
or write to: La Legendc des Voix
21 Rue 8 Mau 1945, 37270,
Montlouis France.
Sit down any guilar fan and
make them listen to the Young
Gods' latest Tusky (Play It Again
Sam) and they'd be hardpressed to
figure out that those aren't guitars,
they 're guitar samples. Knowing that
tidbit makes Tusky even more amazing. The Young Gods have managed quite a departure from "L'eau
Rouge" but in case this sounds hke a
Ministry clone band, Young Gods
are nothing like them. The almost 20
minute song "Summer Etes" sounds
like the Doors, but is way more trippy and has al least a half million
tempo changes. Cool.
lan Sane's LP/OOOFai'/iis a
pretty wacky indie release from
Toronto. It's all self-done (except
for guitar on one track) and is a wall
of sound funniness, with an emphasis on religious samples. One of my
fave tracks is "Hairbands," which is
full of chattery guitar noise and the
greal sample "long on hair, short on
talent." Actually, a pretty neato LP.
If you want to support Canadian
weirdness, here's the address: lan
Sane, 750 king St. West, Toronto,
Ont. M9V 2W8.
Well that's enough for one
month...keep watching formore
interesting stuff in ncxtmonth's
edition. BYTARASLOAN
This month some pretty cool CD's
came into effect. First let's mention
the Juice compilation. Although il's
been kickin' around for a while, I
was only just recently able to get my
hands on a copy of it. Off MCA
Records comes a CD that contains
roughly ten outta fourteen dope
tracks. Some well known artists that
appearon/uice are Eric B. & Rakim,
Too Short, EPMD, Salt'n'Pcpa, Big
Daddy Kane. The basic style in the
hiphop tunze is rough'n'tough. Yo!
Check this out. Juice is an excellent
soundtrack with a lot of variety in
soundsandrhymin' styles,from both
male and female crews. I'd say this
disc is a hit! The movie is cold but
definitely to be checked out. Juice is
A real disappointing crew
that's out with a '92 album is Fam-
Lee. The record's called Runs in the
Fam-Lee. I couldn't believe how
awful the whole thing was! The cov-
crmakes you think lhat you are picking up a rap record, bul after listening for a few short seconds it's
enough tomake you say aloud, '"Ihis
shit is sooo weak!" I guess the besl
way to describe the mood is by naming afew tracks. Let's see..."Precious
Girl,""HeyGirl,""Who'sThatGirl,"
"You're My Girl." Need I go further??? The songs mostly contain
really, really off-key, whiny singing. The vocabulary is lame and oh-
so sappy! In general the CD's programmed beats are the same ol' teeny-bopper sappy pop-filled shit. The
singing is extemely off and the written material is wack. I wouldn't recommend this young crew , it's simply a no-win situation.
Off Wdd Pitch Records comes
the 1992 release of Hard Knocks,
with their 12 track CD genuinely
titled School of Hard Knocks. At
first this disc didn't impress me because it seemed to sound all the
same- a monotone rapper and boring mellow music in the back. The
key to listening to the Hard Knocks
is to listen intently to the lyrics! The
brother rappin'here gets pretty damn
deep. The music that remains
throughout the whole release is various jazz beats while the issues mentioned are dropped in a smooth easy
slyle. "Hand of a Stranger" is a
seriously deep tune. It tells the story
of a dale rape, in somewhat vivid
detail, and then continues the story
where the guy who raped the girl is
himself raped later by a man in the
changing room at a gym. By the end
it is discovered that rapist #1 dies of
AIDS that he caught from lhat other
bro'! School of Hard Knocks may
not appeal lo all listeners because
the music, with ils cymbals and jazz
mixes, is totally mellow throughout
the CD but the street knowledge thai
is being spread is amazing. Intelligent viewpoints are thrown into the
mix and arc aimed towards tellin'
them what lifestyle he sees them
livin'. Peace out to the Hard Knocks.
Word.
Sex and Violence, Boogie
Down Productions latest album,
is slammin'! The tracks vary in style
and lyrical content. And of course
KRS-One comes down strong in that
rough hardcore voice of his, and
adds in that crazy reggae flavour thai
makes his sound so "Ruff, Ruff."
Over the pasl year much has happened to the formation of the BDP
crew. I must note that the message
on the inside cover shocked me. It
reads as follows, "BDP in 1992 is
KRS-ONE, Willie D and Kenny
Parker! BDP in 1992 is not D-Nice,
Jamal-ski, Harmony, Ms. Melodic
and Scottie Morris. They are not
down with BDP so slop frontin'. We
roll tight and hard this year because
too many people want something for
nothing." So what's this all about?
Apparently, rumour has it, that both
X-Clan and Ice Cube commented on
KRS-ONE becoming SOFT!!! I
guess this pissed KRS off! There
appears to be quite a bil of bitterness
on the Sex and Violence release. One
kinda funky track that kicksis "Questions and Answers." In this tune
KRS-ONE starts out by complaining aboul how the commercial acts
arc pickin' up all the press and how
BDP should be, but isn't.
KRS-ONE speaks only reality
himself!
and in this
It's a neat kinda thang the way it
goes down. Sex and Violence has
plenty of intelligent words and lhat
old hardcore style, found on the
Criminal Minded album, is back!! A
positive transition! Buy this CD! It's
a must! Fresh for 1992... You Suc-
kas! Hah! Hah! Hah!
Straight outta Oaktown, and
soundin' like the next upcoming
Too Short, comes POOH-MAN
(MC POOH) and his explicit release Funky As I Wanna Be. The
style is indeed Way-funky! This
homeboy talks with tha gangsta-
provin'n'showin' mellow voice.
MC POOH has dropped his name
on a few other CD's lately: "Sex,
Money and Murder" is featured on
the Juice compilation, and off the
new release "White Men Can't Rap"
(from the movie White Men Can't
Jump) comes the tune, "Funky As I
Wanna Be."Streetlife, living in the
ghetto, and the ways of the justic
systen
e the n
of
MC POOH on this compact disc.
The Luther Campbell CD,
not 2 Live Crew, is fairly short. Il's
just over 36 minutes of LUKE
RECORDS 1992 tunze! Ihere is a
slight problem with the copy I got
to listen to. The explicit lyrics have
been beeped oul so sometimes it is
hard to get the full effect. / Gol
Sumthin' On My Mind is the title of
the release. There are 10 songs in
total and previous samples off past 2
Live Crew songs are incorporated
into many a mix. Track number 5 is
called, "MESSAGE,"and here Luther talks on the issue of black and
white kids and today's society. Il's
really cool. He talks aboul hangin'
oul wilh who you wanna hang oul
with, listenin' lo what kinda music
you wanna listen to, and leamin'
about each others cultures so we
may understand each other. Luke, as
usual, incorporated fun party tracks
with lotsa shouting and repetition to
be made by the crowd.
The cover of / Got Sumlhin'
On My Mind is quite controversial.
Luther is reading the paper while
sittin' on the toilet, and two girls
(one white, one black, bolh butt naked) are covering themselves with
theirhands as best as they can, whilst
standing in the bathtub, surprised
lhat the shower curtain has been
pulled!!! Il seems a tittle odd that the
cover wasn't censored but the lyrics
were! If anything it should be the
other way around! Make sure you
pick up the unedited version! Solo
or in a crew Luther Campbell is still
2 Live!!!
Everybody's hip to the fresh
vibes of the trio the Fu-Schnick-
ens. These bro's, Poc-Fu, Moc-Fu,
and Chip-Fu, are quite unique. F.U.
Don'l Take it Personal consists of
10 crazy-hype tracks. Theirt wo hits,
"Ring the Alarm," and "La
Schmoove," are only two examples
ofthe lingo and mood of the CD. The
mood is fun, hyper, and hilarious.
Lotsa flavour here see! The Fu-
Schnickens produce a couple of
tracks, as do, A Tribe Called Quest,
and Drcs of Black Sheep. An oriental flair is sampled and reggae is
thrown all over lha mix! Repetitive
choruses and crazy crossovers are scattered everywhere. For somethin' a lot
less serious and morelight-hearted, yet
still kickin',check ouithe Fu-Schnick-
Rapper of the month? Hmm...
I'm gonna hafla say KRS-ONE of
Boogie Down Productions who consistently creates Fresh, Hardcore Hip
Hop Beats and Crazy-Hype Lyrics
year...after year., .after year!!!
BY CORAL SHORT
News from the Var
Sparkmarker just got back from
theirCalifornia tour, which was fun
says Kim, and now two of them
have shaved heads (guess which
two and you can have a free shitty
demo). Gest Quest is slill meeting
and looking for a place to hold
gigs... foryou underagers out there,
a show in early July in Abbotsford
will feature The Evaporators,
Goguy, Flywheel, Mystery
Machine (who are now officially
Nettwerk boys) and possibly even
more bands. More info to come on
that show later. There seems to be
tons of worthwhile gigs around town
featuring locals bands so check'em
oui. Frakus, Show Business
Giants, and the Hanson Bros
played the Cruel Elephant on Friday April 3. The Show Business
Giants kicked out their keyboard-
ing tunes well. Their last number,
being ullra-funk, ripped. However,
it was the Hanson Brothers lhat I
was there to see. Old and new
schools combined due to the presence of Rob and John W right. NoMeansNo tunes were played much
to the delight of the rambunctious
but friendly crowd. If you weren't
there, too bad, because you missed
a damn good show.
High Quality Local Demos
Moist
Thisnewquaneidescribestheirsound
as "postpunkadclic-cheelahandroll...
urban soul" and ihis superb label fits
pretty well. In a way Television comes
to mind especially in the slower tunes,
such as "Another Rome" and "Brother John " Promising group and a decent tape despite the hollow sound
quality.
International Secular Atavism
Radio Show Episodes 1 -2
"Holy shit," I though as I listened to
this cassette, a recording of two
Radio Shows broadcast on CJ1V
(now CJSF) a few months ago. Basically, it's a Bob Larsey-style rani
overa churning electronic backing.
I wouldn't suggest playing this for
your Lutheran grandparents since
it's highly irreligious and just plain
gross at times. Some of us think that
kind of thing is funny though....
Monday - Here and Now
One of the best sounding tapes of
the batch in terms of sound quality,
this local band recorded the 4-song
Here and Now at Impact Sound in
Burnaby. 'Hie songs are concise and
hook-laden, indicating the band has
plenty of material to satisfy those
who need a lillle pop in iheir rock.
Some may find this stuff a tad mainstream, especially regular listeners
of CiTR Radio Hell. But hey, this
one's worth letting your hair down
and indulging.
Die Scene
Whew! Big Band! Eighteen members or somelhing like lhat... big
noise too; they've even got homs, a
background chorus, you name it.
And they do it hve too! There hasn't
probably been lhal many people on
stage since Test Depl. look on the
Welsh Coal Miner's Choir. "Put'em
on a Boat" and "A Better Peace" arc
parodies of the sentiment felt by
Ihoseubiquitous, Archie Bunkerbig-
ot-types who run your lives, while
the olher three tunes arc just plain
singalong fun. Check this band out.
Love Junction
How about simply "Junk." Even
Violet Addiction would hurtle their
lunch chunks after being exposed to
this dreck.
Little Heads Are Soft
Saw these guys down al the Whal?
this past Easter weekend and they
were hoi. How hoi? As a matter o'
fact, I turned lo my companion -
who we'll jusl call the Zalm-and he
said "Fucking Faaanlaslic!" (An
opinion he usually reserves for bands
who have chicks with headbands.)
The demo is a reflection of the live
show, just a little more muffled.
"Song for Benny" ripped hve but
needs more fidelity on the tape.
Could "Song for Linda" be a poem
to our very own, the talented and
industrious Linda Scholten? Sorry
guys, she's nol taking applications,
although this is said without knowing the true evil lhat bass players'
fingers can do. They were literal ly a
blur the night I saw them— even
when everything was clear (which
doesn't happened often the nights
you party with the Zalm).
Man
This music is good, hard and fast,
but it kicks back at the same time.
Vocals are reminiscent of Mark
Lanegan of the Screaming Trees or
lan from the Cult. Actually the whole
band sounds remotely like the
Screaming Trees on acid.
Foam
No address or number given if you
want one, but I'm sure you could
leave a note for Mofo, their producer, at CiTR. Mike "Bill" Bilis-
ki's vocals endear the band a lot
more than Ken Beattie's. The harmony of the back-up vocals make
ya cringe. "Let Jesus Put His Love
(Deep Inside You)" [Hey, this is
MCP material. Ed] is the most
hardcore and disturbing tune. All
in all I could gel to like this band
with vocalist #2.
Unscene... Heard
Yes, unfortunately this band is being
heard. Any band that sends lyrics,
deep meaningful glossy photos, and
a bio of each member with the press
kit is sad. They state that the song
"Jodee" is a "slow ballad that discusses the plight of unwanted children, by using keyboards and a mu-
• sic box to help create the proper
atmosphere." Production is stick and
musical training is there, but it does
nol help. Never admit to anyone that
Phil Collins is your favourite musi-
Movieland
l ney played on Live from Thunderbird Radio Hell a while back. Their
guitarisl/vocalistplayedforlheGrue-
somes for a while; exciting stuff. I
hke the bass, but they can be too
mellow. They could be triumphant if
they sped some of their slower songs
up or made more tempo changes.
James Dean Lul
No info on the whereabouts of these
guys. Well, so far I am getting lulled
lo sleep. "Scream lo Be" is a faster
catchier tune. The demo was interesting for a while, then ii slopped
being lhat way.
Bulletproof Nothing
No info on how to get in louch with
this group as well. Silly bands, press
and no address. This demo was recorded in 24 hours between Jan 8th
and 24th at Bedside Studios. Is this a
bedroom? Il sounds hke it. They're
not bad, a bit loose, bul upbeat and
appealing vocals. I think wilh a bil
more experience they could be a
pretty cool band.
Cane Toads
It's a chick singing and she sounds
good and tasty. Instrumentally they
sound loud, grungy, meaty and hard.
'Diere is only one song on this demo
unfortunately, called "Wake Up
Suzy." Hopefully we'll be hearing
more of this band around town.
Sorry lo all the worthy bands oul
there that wc haven 't written about yel
—wcarc 22dcmos behind because we
arc getting so many and wc can only
wnle on 12 or so a month. Send letters
and presents wilh yourmusic and your
demo will begotten toquicker. [Maybe
there should be some mention lhat
Dale Sawyerassistedwith "Vancouver
Special" this month Coral! Ed.]
MAY i
o MAY 92 LONG GROOOVES 70
1 VARIOUS CLAMCHOWDERANDICEVS.BIGMACSANDBOMBERS<NARDWUAR)
 RAINSTICK(MINT)
3 THEYMIGHTBEGIANTS
4 HARDROCKMINERS
THE FINAL FRONTIER(SONY)
6 ANGEtlQUEKIDJO
LOGONZO(ISlAND=MANGO)
7 JERRYJERRY	
DONTMINDIFIDOtAOUARIUS)
8 SHOVELHED....
STOVE BOYSERVESDAILYSPECIAL(KONKURREL)
9 CURVE
DOPf>ELGANGER(WEA = ANXIOUS = CHARISMA)
10 VARIOUS    .         OOPEG
NS N FUCKING IN THE STREET VOL 41AMPHETAMINE REPTILE)
11  THE WEDDING PRESENT
SEAMONSTERSIBMG-FIRST WARNING)
12 HEROES OF HIPHOPRISY.
HIPOCRISYISTHE GREATEST IUXURY(ISIAND=4TH»BWAY)
13 TREEPEOPLE	
SOMETHING VICIOUS FOR TOMORROW/TIME WHORE(C/Z)
15 VARIOUS	
HIGHWAY 61  SOUNTRACK(INTREPID)
16 BUFFALO TOM
LET ME COME OVER(BMG=6EGGARS BANQUET)
17  BAD RELIGION	
 GENERATOR(EPITAPH)
18 LUSH	
SPOOKYMAD)
19 THE MIGHTY MIGHTY BOSSTONES     MORE NOISE AND OTHER DISTURBANCES (TAANG!)
20 STUMPY JOE	
ONE WAY TICKET TO KICKSVILLE(POPILAMA)
21  POISON IDEA
     BLANK BLACKOUT VACANT(TAANG!)
22  BOOGIE DOWN PRODUCTIONS SEX AND VIOLENCE(BMG=ZOMBA)
23 THEYOUNGGODS	
 T.V.SKY(CAROLINE=PlAYTT AGAIN)
24 NOMEANSNO
0.2= lCALTERNATrVETENTACLES)
25 THE MONKEYWRENCH...
CLEAN AS A BROKE DICK DOGtSUB POP)
26 ROLLINS BAND
THE END Ol SILENCEWANT ADS IMAGO)
27 THE SMUGGLERS
THE SMUGGLERS AT  MARINELAND(NARDWUAR)
28 THE  COWS
CUNNING  STUNTSLAMPHETAMINE  REPTILE)
29 THE     BROOD
VENDETTA(ESTRUS)
30 GWAR.
AMERICA  MUST  BE  DESTROYED<WARNER=SLAVEPIT)
31  THE TEREM QUARTET
TEREMfREAL WORLD)
32 DHIMACHINE
ALTAR TRANSMISSION(FRINGE)
33 KODE IV
POSSESSED(CARGO=KK)
34 RIPCORDZ
KIDNOISEtEN  GUARDE)
35 SEAWEED
WEAK'SUB  POP)
36 SCREECHING WEASEL
MY BRAIN  HURTSUOOK OUT!)
37 SKINNY PUPPY	
 LAST RITES(NETTWERK)
38 THE SUGARCUBES
STICK AROUND FOR JOY(WARNER=ELEKTRA)
39 VARIOUS	
CANADIAN  BLUES  MASTERS(K-TEL)
40 WOBBLES        INVADERS OF THE HEARTRISING ABOVE BEDLAM(WARNER=EAST WEST)
41  BODY COUNT
BODY COUNT(WARNER=SIRE)
43 BEATS INTERNATIONAL..
EXCURSION ON THE VERSION(POLYGRAM=GO BEAT)
44
CORROSION OF CONFORMITY
 VOTE WITH A BULLET(RELATIVITY)
45
CYPRESS HILL	
 CYPRESS HILKCOLUMBIA=RUFFHOUSE)
46
K.D.LANG
INGENUE(WARNER=SIRE)
47
DAVID BYRNE	
UH OH(WARNER=SIRE>
48
SIR MIX-A-LOT
MACK DADDY(DEF AMERICAN=RHYME)
49
TEENAGE FANCLUB
BANDWAGONESQUE(MCA)
50
51
DAYGLO ABORTIONS..
TWO DOGS FUCKING(FRINGE)
52
DIGITAL POODLE	
SOUL CRUSH(dovENTERTAINMENT)
53
ORDO EQUITUM SOLIS
ANIMIAEGRITUDO(dovENTERTAINMENT=MMM)
54
SHRIMP BOAT	
DUENDE(BAR NONE)
55
VARIOUS	
EXPUCITSK8ROK(THRASHER>
56
AFGHAN WHIGS
CONGREGATION(CARGO=SUB POP)
57
BORGHESIA
DREAMERS IN COLOUR <CAROLINE=PLAY ITAGAIN SAM)
58
KRONOS QUARTET..
      PIECES OF AFRICA(ELEKTRA)
59
VARIOUS.
WRITINGS ON THE WALKSYNTHETIC REALITIES=BEAM 103)
60
YO LA TENGO
MAY  I SING WITH  ME(CARGO=ALIAS)
61
DHARMA BUMS.
WELCOME(BMG-FRONTIER)
62
JAZZ BUTCHER	
CONDITION  BLUE(SKY)
63
JON WAYNE
TEXAS FUNERAL(CARGO=FISTPUPPET)
64
OLD SKULL 	
CIA DRUG FEST(RESTLESS)
65
RIDE	
GOING BLANK AGAIN(WARNER=SIRE)
66
SUPERSUCKERS	
THE SONGS ALL SOUND THE SAME(EMPTY)
67
T.A.G.C..                 MEONTOLOGICAL RESEARCH REC TESTE TONES(SOLEILMOON)
68
PENICILLIN  ON WAX(COLUMBIA=RUFFHOUSE)
70
VICTIMS FAMILY	
 THE GERM (ALTERNATIVE TENTACLE)
MAY92 SINGLE MAGNET
IC PARTYCLOTHES
1 PERFUME TREE	
 -DEATH IN  PRIME TIME"
2 STARBOYS	
3 CANE TOADS	
  "WAKE  UP SUZY"
4 RATTLED  ROOSTERS	
  -HOT  ROD GIRL*
5 MYSTERY  MACHINE	
 'SHAKY GROUND"
6 TRUK              	
■TOSS  IT AWAY*
8 STICK  MONKEY	
 "TELL  ME SOMETHING"
9 FATAL  HATRED	
■JESUS WAS A LONGHAIR"
10 MONDAY	
"ANGEL  IN WAITING-
11 THE INDECISIVES	
 "GOOD INTENTIONS"
12 WYNONA SUE AND THE  TURNPIKES	
 "COW COW STRUT"
13 MOVIELAND	
14 SINISTER DUDE RANCH         	
 -PLANT SONG"
15 JAMES DEAN	
•SCREAM TO BE-
16 SHINE	
 _ "BUTTERFLY"
19 SLUDGE                	
■ROPE  BURN"
20 MYSTERY  MACHINE	
 "BROKEN"
21 SPARKMARKER                             	
    "MIRROR OF DAYS"
22 WARD GREEN	
 "JUST  DOWN THE  ROAD"
23SNOWDOGS	
 "K  CAR"
24 TERROR T AND THE BEAT ASSASSINATOR	
"GANGSTA SHIT"
25 BIG TALL GARDEN                    	
"GRASSHOPPER DELIGHT"
26 MOIST	
      "BROTHER JOHN"
27 HI DUMMY                                    	
 "105"
28 UNDERTAKING	
 "BUMBLE BEER"
29 PLANET OF  SPIDERS	
 "PORCHUGHT"
30 SUCKING CHEST WOUND           .    "SATAN'N
DRUGS 'N HIPPIES 'N ROCK 'N ROLL"
31 OTTG                	
 "ODIOUS LAURIE"
33 ALIEN AND THE  PSYCHO	
 "BONE SLUG"
34 CONNECT	
•MEANING OF HATE"
35 CUTER THAN SPUNKY	
 "FOR YOU"
36 HAZEL MOTES	
 -INSPIRATION"
37 FURNACE  FACE	
  "DOWN THE  DRAIN"
38 MEXICAN  POWER AUTHORITY
"SEX WITH THE  DEVIL"
39 ROLLCAGE    	
*NO MORE HAPPY MONDAYS*
•THE NIGHT 1 MET SATAN-
42 THE LOGIC CONSPIRACY                   *l WISH
HAD A BETTER WAY WTTH WORDS*
43 THE  BOMBSHELLS	
 "STARFISH"
46 TIPPY A GO GO      .
"SO THE STORY GOES*
47 SHOW  BUSINESS  GIANTS	
 *WORLD  IS  TOO  CROWDED*
48 BEFORE THE  FALL	
 "CREATIVE  DIFFERENCES"
49 POOR   BOYS  THEATRE	
"POOR  BOYS  THEATRE"
50 IMOGEN JAKES	
*20TH  CENTURY SKYLINE"
51 THE  RAINKINGS	
 "I  DON'T  NEED YOU"
MAY 92 SHORTIE GROOVES 51
1 17 CD-5"  EP(WARNER=SLASH>
2 INTER MIX CD-S-  EPtWAX TRAX)
3 MULE "UNCLE  FUCK"  7-(BROWNER)
4 MUDHONEY B/W GAS HUFFER "YOU STUPID ASSHOLE    7"(EMPTY)
5 FLOP "DRUGS"  7-(DASHBOARD HULA GIRL)
6 BEASTIE  BOYS "PASS THE  MIC"   I2-(CAPIT0L>
7 MECCA NORMAL      "ARMCHAIRS FIT THROUGH DOORWAYS 7'(K  RECORDS)
8 HP ZINKER "OUR  PRECIOUS  LOVE 7*<ROUGHNECK>
9 GIRL TROUBLE B/W THE A-BONES SPLIT    7"<POPLLAMA=CRUDDY RD.)
10 HITTING  BIRTH "LOVE  ME"   12"(T/K>
11 ICE CUBE  "STEADY MOBBIN'"   12-(PRI0RITY)
12 BUM A  PROMISE  IS A  PROMISE 7*<LANCE ROCK)
13 ZIPGUN "TOGETHER  DUMB"  7-(EMPTY>
14 BIG SANDY AND THE FLY-RITE TRIO DON'T DESERT ME 7"(DIONYSUS)
15 PHLEG CAMP "BEAKER"  7"(FINAL NOTICE)
16 THE  BREEDERS 'SAFARI* CD-5'  EP(POLYGRAM=4AD)
17 WHIRLEES IN  MY GROOVE 7"(SCHIZOPHONIC)
18 YUMMY "CANDY  DAY*  7"(EMPTY)
19 SUPERCONDUCTOR    THE MOST POPULAR MAN IN THE WORLD 7-(SCRATCH)
20 BRATMOBILE "KISS AND RIDE"  7-<HOMESTEAD=DEIT)
21 IRON PROSTATE   "BRING ME THE HEAD OF JERRY GARCIA" 7"<VITAl MUSIC)
22 THE  MEICES DON'T  LET THE SOAP  RUN  OUT 7-(EMPTY)
23 SUGAR BOOM "SPIRAL"/"MOVE" 7"(SCHIZOPHONIC)
24 CATS GAME HOME SWEET  HOME 7"(3  MINUTE MILE)
25 RECOIL "FAITH  HEALER*   12-(SIRE=REPRISE)
26 A TRIBE CALLED QUEST "SCENARIO*   12-(JIVE)
27 BAD LIVERS  "LUST  FOR LIFE*  7*<FISTPUPPET)
28 CHEATER STICKS TM  GROUNDEDIVCAN  IT  BE?*  7'(IN THE RED)
29 CHOOSEY MOTHERS MY GIRLFRIEND  IS GONNA....7"  (BOOZEFIGHTER)
30 THE HOODS *YOU WON'T TAKE HERVMYSTERY TRAIN" 7-(DIONYSUS)
31 IS THIS 80B^ "LUCKY JOHNNY'S"  7*(PLUMB)
32 JACK WENBERG "RAINBOW"  7'(MAJESTIC)
33 THE MUFFS NEW  LOVE  7"(SYMPATHY FOR THE  RECORD  INDUSTRY)
34 OSWALD 5-0 -ERASER"/*FELONY FLATS* 7'(IMP)
35 SPIRITUALIZED "SMUEVSWAY" 7"(RTM=DEDICATED)
36 PELL MELL "SMOKEVBRING ON THE CHINA"  7"(SST)
37 THE  POTATO EATERS       -DOG EAREDIBUT  FORGOTTEN)  7-(RASTASCAN)
38 HUEVOS RANCHEROS ROCKET TO  NOWHERE  7-(ESTRUS)
39 JAWBOX -TONGUESVONES AND ZEROS* 7-(DISCHORD)
40 THE SWIRLIES "SARAH SITTING" 7"<SLUMBERLAND>
41 NOMEANSNO *OH CANADUH"/*NEW AGE"  7-(ALLIED RECORDINGS)
42 MIDWAY STILL WISH  7'(ROUGHNECK)
43 FLEISCH MACHT SUCHTIG 7'(FAR OUT)
44 LEATHERFACE  I  WANT THE  MOON  7-(ROUGHNECK)
45 HOP FLOP FLY "KITTY  KITTY" 7"(FLYTONE)
46 THE  ROMULANS SHE'S TARA 7"(SUSSTONES)
47 MIND SIRENS "ALASKA WHEN WINTER IS KING"/"IOWA"  7'(JETTISON)
48 QUIVERPUSS "CONJURE  UP A MAN"  7"(FACEBAT)
49 NAPALM SUNDAY "SUBTLE INFIDEITIY"/"SHE BELIEVES* 7*<SHARK SANDWICH)
50 THE  VON TRAPP  FAMILY SINGERS GRANOLA  HEAD 7'(NERVOUS SHEEP)
51 RANCID VAT IT'S MY FATE 7"
DOYOU REMEMBERROCICN'ROU. RADIO?
.DISCORDER CHARTS 5 YEARS AGO,,
1  DOA	
 TRUE NORTH STRONG AND FREE(PROFILE)
3 HUSKER Du	
WAREHOUSE: SONGS AND STORIES(WEA)
4 K.D. LANG	
  ANGEL WITH A LARIATWEA)
5 OVERSOUL SEVEN	
FOOL REVELATION(EDGE)
7  DEAD KENNEDYS	
BEDTIME FOR DEMOCRACYIALTERNATIVE TENTACLES)
8 GINGER BAKER	
   HORSES AND TREES(CELLULOID)
10 THE BEASTIE BOYS	
 LICENSED TO ILKDEF JAM-CBS)
IT'S THE ONLY WAY TO LISTEN TO
/NPUSTRfAL MUSIC
24 nf&g°usims\ SUNDAYS
ARE YOU SERIOUS? MUSIC 8:00AM-
12:00PM All of time* is measured
by itsart. Most broadcasting shuns
art for incestuous market-music.
This show presents the most recent new music from around the
world. Ears open. Hosted by Paul
Steenhuisen and lan Crutchley.
THE BRUNCH REPORT 12:00-12:15*»M
News, sports, weather and more
with the CiTR News, Sports and
Weather Departments.
THE ROCKERS SHOW 12:15-3:0OPM
Hosts: George Barrett and Mike
Cherry. Reggae inna all styles and
fashion. Dancehall, Dub, Roots,
Lovers-rock, Rock Steady, Ska and
beyond!
THE SUNDAY MAGAZINE 5:00-5:30PM
All the days news, weather and
sports, and a feature. Hosted by
Helen G.
MAURY'S GOT THE NIGHT OFF 6:00-
8:00PM Kooky antics, current irrelevant issues, Joe Jackson,
Pankow, Ice-T, Hellbastard, and
your cool requests. Hosted by
Karen Toddington and Lloyd
Uliana.
LULU'S BACK IN TOWN 8:00- 9:00PM
Tune in as your hosts VinnieCarpelli
and Sonny Prince play some of
the hottest crooners on wax.
Names like Tony Bennett, Sammy
Davis, Jr., Engelbert Humperdinck
and many, many more...lots of
great cuts and plenty of polyester.
GEETANJALI 9:00- 10:00PM
Geetanjali is a new one-hour radio show which features a wide
range of music from India. This
includes classical music, both
Hindustani and Carnatic, popular
music from Indian movies from the
1930's to the 1990 s, Semi-classical
5 Gha;
and
Bhajans.and alsoQuawwalis, Polk
Songs, etc. Hosted by Jyoti Dhar
and Pradeep Kumar Nandam.
RADIO FREE AMERICA 10:00PM-
12:00AM Join host Dave Emory
and colleague Nip Tuck for some
extraodinary political research
guaranteed to make you think
twice. Bring your tape deck and
two C-90s. Originally broadcast
on KFJC (Los Altos, California).
MONDAYS
THE MORNING SHOW   7:30-8:15AM
Wake up with the CiTR Morning
Show. All the news, sports and
weatheryouneedto start yourday.
Plus what's happening at UBC each
day with UBC Digest, a feature in-
terviewand more. Topped off with
the BBC World Service Newt at
8:00AM, live from London, England.
Hosted today by Bill Currie.
BREAKFAST WITH THE BROWNS 6:15-
11:00AM Yourfavouritebrown-sters
James and Peter offer a savoury
blend of the familiar and exotic in
an excitingly luscious blend of aural
delights! Tune in and enjoy each
weekly brown plate special.
DON AND GOURD'S STUPID RADIO
SHOW 11:00 AM- 1:00 PM So they
asked me "Is this music ?" Noon
feature: Crucifix In Your Ear.'
THE AFTERNOON REPORT 1:00-1:15PM
News, sports and weather.
MEKANIKAL OBJEKT NOIZE l:15-3:0OPM
CiTR's only all industrial / technical /
electronic show with different feature albums every week. With your
dj pal, June. Cevin Key likes some of
you.
GUMBO RADIO 3:00-5:00PM Host:
Steve Wells.
THE CITR DINNER REPORT 5:00-5:30PM
All the latest on campus: news,
sports, an in-depth interview, theatre or film review, editorial com-
mentary and more. Weekdayswith
host lan Gunn.
AUTHENTIC AMATEURISM 5:30-6:00PM
The sports show that seethes with
insight while staying at one with the
sports world. Hosted by Mark
Dinsdale, who always gives 110%.
Focusing on local, campus and
amateur sports.
BOXER SHORT BOYZ 7:00-9:00PM Just
a couple of guys who like to walk
around in their boxer shorts with
their big fat guts hanging out.
Jerome Broadway and Garnet
Timothy Harry alternate weeks.
THE JAZZ SHOW 9:00PM-12:00AM
Vancouver's longest running prime
time jazz program. Hosted by the
; Gavin Walker. Features
4th: New Bottle,Old Wine."A great
combination...theorchestraand
arrangements by Gil
Evans...Julian "Cannonball"
Adderley, chief soloist on alto
saxophone and timeless jaazz
standards by Armstrong, Waller,
Parker ect. Worth waiting for.
1 Uh: "Talkin About..Grant Green."
Green, one ofthe finest modern
Jazz guitarists is coupled with
Hammond Organ innovator
Larry Young and the great drummer. Elvin Jones. This is a Feature
that you'll be "Talkin About" for o
18th: Chuck Mangione is a name
that conjures up visions of big
hats, long hair, and "elevator
jazz."...nottonight...Mangione is
featured on trumpet...and
leaading a great band with the
wonderful reedman Joe
Romano and a classic rhythm
sectbn: Wynton Kelly (piano),
Sam Jones (baass), Louis Hayes
(drums). Recorded in 1962 and
not suitable for elevators.
23rct Baritone saxophonist, composer Gerry Mulligan collaborated with many great players
on a series of recordings in the
late 50's...albums wwith Paul
Desmond, Stan Getz, Thelonious
Monk ect. Tonight's feaature is
Mulligan's favourite of the
batch...Mulligan with tenor
saxophone giant Ben
Webster...well play tracks that
were not issued on the original
LP. Don't miss this!
TUESDAYS
THE MORNING SHOW   7:30-8:15AM
Hosted by Antje Rauwerda.
DOG'S BREAKFAST 11:00AM- 1:00PM
Hey.I haven't poisooned anyoone
yet! Joiin me. your hostess/chef
Helen G. for cookin and shakin.
Naptlme stories too.
5th: Pretzels and beer and maybe
some televised sports with birthday
boy Chris Uren. No Heimlich
Manoeuvres In the Night Kitchen.
Mothers Day is coming.
12th: A good square meal for the
Madonna Deathwatch
boys...eitherthatorDuckal'orange.
Yep, Scooter and Bryce in my
kitchen Where the Wild Things Are.
T9th: Chicken Souo with Rice: story
and genuine article with my beau
Benny on my tattoos 3 year
anniversaary and our 3 1/2. Aww!
26th: Summer Pudding with Jane
Tilley. Unseasonal but amazing. In
case you hadn't noticed, we're
doing the Maurice Sendak thing
this month. OUr last story, Mr. Rabbit
and the Lovely Present is just illustrated by him. Cooking live from
Venus!
BLOOD ON THE SADDLE 1:15-3:00PM
Country music to scrape the
cowshit off your boots to With yer
host-poke Jeff Gray.
LIVE FROM VENUS 3:00-5:OOPM
Women- made music and stuff,
hosted by Jane Tilley.
THE REAL DEAL 6:00-7:00PM If it ain't
rap then you know its crap.'-Eazy-
E. Hardcore rap with your hardcore
rap host Terror T.
THE UNHEARD MUSIC 7:00-9:00PM
Demo Director Dale Sawyer provides some insight into the best and
the worst of the newest Canadian
AVANT-PIG 9:00PM-12:00AM Alternating Tuesdays with Wolf at the
Door. Now three hours of funky
ambient noise piggery with Pete
Lutwyche.
WOLF AT THE DOOR 9:00PM-12:00AM
Alternating Tuesdays with Avant-
Pig. The latest in dance music and
interesting drama every second
■ week. With Lupus Yonderboy.
AURAL TENTACLES MIDNITE UNTIL THE
MOON DROPS Fun for the whole
family to enjoy! Weird chunks of
news.oddpiecesoftuneage,Pierre
and the 2AM WWOD.
WEDNESDAYS
THE MORNING SHOW   7:30-8:15AM
Hosted by lan Gunn.
SOULCHURCH 12:00-1:00PM That program where we play for you the
best of the African-Canadian, African-American gospel music tradition. Your host in a hurry, Dave
Langille.
NOOLEY TUNES 1:15-3:00PM Spinning
the best and worst of CiTR's playlist,
only the most original requests will
be remotely considered. Emphasis will be on new new new material fromaround the world, regardless of musical classification.
NORMAN'S KITCHEN 3.00-5.00PM We
just got hold of TIME/LIFE's'Classic Rock of the 70s," so get ready
to party. With your host, the
Reverend Norman.
THE HEALING HOUR 7:O0-9:OOPM
Guru Dru plays the blues.
ENTERTAINMENT 9:00-12:00PM Only
the third Radb Program in the history of Homo-sapien kind to be
dedicated to solving ALL of the
world's problems. Radio that believes in confusion, noise, peace,
love.aggression and maybe even
EVOLUTION... move beyond the old
obsessions...Featuring LIVE FROM
THE INNER STATION the first
Wendsday of every month. An altered approach to music performed live for radio.
THURSDAYS
THE MORNING SHOW    7:30-8:15AM
Hosted by Antje Rauwerda.
CANADIAN LUNCH 11:30- 1:00PM
Toques, plaids, backbacon, beer,
igloos, snomobiles, beavers & Brian
Mulrooney. If you bve Canada,
tune in and eat your lunch to Canadian music. Previously
Coralation.
POPGUN 1:00-3:OOPM
FLEX YOUR HEAD 3:0O-5:00PM
—HARD- ----- JINX-—
—ERIC  CORE--
OUT FOR KICKS 6:00- 8:00PM No
Birkenstocksnothing politbally correct. We don't get paid so you're
damn right we have fun with it.
Hosted by Chris B.
RED HOT AND BLUE 8:00- 9:00PM Roots
music, rhythm and blues, rock n
roll, and who knows what, hosted
by Eddb J.
UVE FROM THUNDERBIRD RADIO HELL
9:00-11:00PM Local musb from 9.
Live bands from 10.
May 14th - BUM.
May 21 st - Special Performance -1992
Prince of Wales High School Battle
of the Bands
May28th -StickMonkey
ABSOLUTE VALUE OF NOISE 11:00PM-
1:00AM 100% Canadbn industrbl-
ism. Noise with four-dimensional
psycho-acoustb interactivity. Prac-
HUM
ARE YOU
SERIOUS
MUSIC
rocker
SHOW
ARGQSHOW
trtbner: Peter Courtemanche.
MEGABLASTI 1 AM-WHEN U STOP LISTENING minimalism, adamnoizisloan
is (ir)responsible.
FRIDAYS
THE MORNING SHOW   7:30-8:15AM
Hosted by lan Gunn.
THE NOIZ SHOW 2:30- 3:30,4:00-5:00PM
NARDWUARTHE HUMAN SERVIETTE PRESENTS... 3:30-4:00PM Nardwuar the
Human Serviette Presents...Neil
Young was a Squire, 1962-1967.
THE CITR DINNER REPORT 5:0O-5:20PM
With "The Voice of Reason," our
weekly look back at the week in
the news, tongues firmly in cheek.
THE THUNDERBIRD PREVIEW 5:20-5:30PM
The Sports Departments preview
of what II be goin' down this week-
PROJECTIONS 5:30- 6:00PM Projectbns:
news, music, and reviews of alternative, Hollywood and locally produced films on Vancouver s only all-
movie radio show hosted by two
actul film students, Jason and Steve.
COCKTAILS WITH DARYL AND SUZI 6:00-
9:00PM Underground sound system-style mastermix radio.
FOR THE RECORD 6:30-6:45PM Excerpts from Dave Emory's Radio
Free America Series.
HOMEBASS 9:00PM-12: 30AM Dope
jams and fresh beats for a groovy
evening with DJ Noah on the
wheels of steel.
LYMP SINK 12:30AM-Mornlng Divbe
twin bags abng perforation. Use 1
per cup; add boiling water. Steep
4-6 minutes. If desired, add a touch
of honey. Special Bonus! Make it
to 5 AM and get a bedtime story!
See below for details. Hosted by
the G42 players.
May 1st - The Postman Pat Show.
May 8th - The Doctor Kildare Show.
May 15th - The Postman Pat's Show.
May 22nd-The Doctor Kilbare Show.
May 29»h - The Amazing 10th
Annivesary Skinny Puppy   Tribute
SATURDAYS
THE SATURDAY EDGE 8:00AM-12:00PM
Vancouver s biggest and best
acoustic/roots/rogue radio show.
Now in its 6th year  on CiTR! Roots
POWERCHORD
12:15-3:00PM
Vancouver's only true metal show:
bcal demo tapes, importsartd
other rarities. Gerald Rattleheact
and Metal Ron do the damage*.
THE AFRICAN SHOW 3:O0-5:OOPM It's _
music thing from all "Africa.* IK_an
awareness thing ofselfandotfiws.
It's an African house party. States,
music, dance fun. Welcome! Vbur
host: Umerah.
THE SATURDAY MAGAZNE l-0-5:3tt_t
UBC's weekend news/Ail the Safest
news, sports, weather, a movie review, feature report and mb*0.
News with Luc Dinsdale; Doug
Richards has sports. : :-
IN EFFECT 6:00-8:00 The Hip Hop beat
and nottin' butt. With host PDSs
THE HEIMLICH MANOUEVER8:00- VfcOO
You know what's wrong with'Wat-day? They don't listen. Jesus
Christ, we're just trying to shape
young minds. Tune in, tum on-;and
fuck off .with hosts MindyandCnffe.
GROOVE JUMPING 10:00PM-1:00AM
Loud, fast and aging rapidly... ifs
not just a name it's away of life.
Drink beer and listen to1Houd.-we
do! Hosts Terry Holland .and John
Yaremus do Rock qtkJRoII thevray
it s supposed to be done.
SOMETHING 1:00-4:OOW_ Ambivalent twat ptays whatever she thinks
is cool for four or four and a>half
hours and then puts on a CCrand
goes to sleep in the virryt coucft in
the bunge unless you decide? to
drive her home.
WHOM & HOW
ARTS SHAWNBOUCHARD
BOARD CHAIR HARRYHERTSCHES
CURRENT AFFAIRS IAN GUNN
DEMOS/CASSETTES DALE SAWYER
ENGINEER RICHARD ANDERSON
ENTERTAINMENT TANIA ALEKSON
MOBILE SOUND DARREN REITER
MUSIC MINDYA8RAMOWITZ
NEWS IAN GUNN
PRESIDENT "DIAMOND" DRU PAVLOV
PRODUCTION JUSTIN LEIGH
PROGRAMMING CHRIS UREN
PROMOTIONS A.O.CHAPMAN
SECRETARY CORAL SHORT
SPORTS MARK DINSDALE
STATION MANAGER UNDA SCHOLTEN
STUDENT ENGINEER ADAM SLOAN
VICE PRESIDENT HELENGODOLPHIN
VOLUNTEER COORDINATOR   JOHN RUSKIN
BUSINESS UNE 604/822-3017
DJUNE 604/822-2487 (UBC-CiTR)
NEWS UNE 604/222-2487 (222-CITR)
FAX LINE 604/822-6093
ENVOY ID CITR.EM
LULU'S BACK
GEETANJALI
ONE STEP
BEY0ND/BADI0
FREE AMERICA
fi
GIVOF
'^'■■IHBa-'l
HIiaiHI
DIGITAL  CUriTC   B'™BAC0N*
ALARM     OJJUUJ       MAPLE SYRUP
£HA?,v? M /. XT llNlOOFUS
FLAMING THRUST nnum
CAT.   -Anp,,Xi    £01825
SOUL CHURCH   rUruUIN    ABC123
i _. _ =■_* ? _>x»_ * am :*■ m __•:■ -a am
NOOLEY  Canadian   FVFWATFR
MM.  _________ MM
NORMAN'S   ^   gKjjJH
KITCHEN    head    NOIZ W0
i»]--i-_a*a--:4a_-'»]-«r~
THE
SATURDAY
EDGE
I-HAViol
POWER
CHORD
AFRICAN
SHOW
mmm
mum
MANOUVRE
SOME
THING
*© IVI^Wi
RHYTHMIC    UNDERGROUND
ALL GAMES
ONLY 25<
FOR MAY 1992
your cheapest
ticket to another
world
SUB ARCADE • LOWER CONCOURSE • SUB BUILDING
UBC • ALL AGES • OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK
Vancouver's
Largest Selection
of Almost New and Used
Paperbacks and
Magazine Back Issues
Large Range of
Hard Cover Books
Thousands of New and
Collector's Comics
We Buy, Sell or Trade
1247 Granville near Davie
682-3019
3347 Kingsway
430-3003
Open 7 Days a Week
Records & Stuff We Sell:
67. SHUDDERTOTHINKg-wg^©
64. BEEFEATER Both LP.* + 2 Songs CD ©
63. CIRCUS LUPUS 'Super Genius'* ©
62. JAWBOX       Tongues'/'Ones & Zeros' 7"     ®
61. NATION OF ULYSSES  3-Songr   ®
60.   FUGAZI 'Steady Diet of Nothing* ©
59. HOLY ROLLERS -pauie/_-a-_• cd ©
58. HOLY ROLLERS Tabuie/' ©
57. NATION OF ULYSSES ,3.^^* ©
56. HIGH-BACK CHAIRS -on™.*-* ©
55. SHUDDER TO THINK _♦_•**_. ©
54. SHUDDER TO THINK w„^t ©
53.   DAG NASTY    Can I Say &'Wig Oik...'CD     ©
50. SKEWBALD/GRAND UNION r ®
16. RITES OF SPRING      lp/cs/cd* ©
f Also available as ca
♦Available as CD, price code®
Price Guide, including postage, in U.S. $:
T
12" EP
LP
CD
MaxiCD
U.S.A.
3.00
6.00
7.00
8.00
10.00
4.00
8.00
9.00
9.00
11.00
Airmail
6.00
11.00
12.00
11.00
13.00
3819 BEECHER ST. NW, WASH., D.C. 20007 Hard Rock Miners
The Final Frontier
(Sony)
Mom: "This sounds like country."
Dad: "It is country."
Helen G.'s parents on their first
taste of The Final Frontier.
It's Hooienanny hoedown time! I interviewed three Hard Rock Miners way back
in September when thenew release seemed
forthcoming and I've been holding my
breath 'ul now. What can I say? I like il;
my family likes it; you can wash dishes to
il; you have to dance to ii. My personal
favourite is "White Lightening," a HRM
original. Being an obsessive type, this is
the "ten-times-in-a-row, several-days-a-
week, until-the-record-wears-out, only-
I'm-in-luck-because-it's-on-CD"pick of
the month. There are 11
originals in all plus their two well-known
fab covers of "These Boots are Made for
Walking" and "She Drives Me Crazy."
Hard Rock Miners are expert at mixing
pop, rap, and classic rock vignettes in
with their original brand of citybilly. The
Final Frontier-is a real gem, the sound on
this release is great: lively and not overproduced. Nifty packaging too. Already
I 'm looking forward to the next release to
show off their current line-up. This one'll
keep me hopping until then.
Helen G.
Windwalker
Rainstick
(Mint)
Rainstick not only marks the debut full
length release from Windwalker, it is also
the first CD putout on Vancouver's MINT
records. After winmngour very own Shindig competition in 1990 the band shot a
couple of demos lo the top of the CiTR
demo charts in 1991. Along with this
remarkable feat the band also hooked up
with CBC'sBraveNew Waves, recording
a live session that was pumped through
the nation's airwaves. With Rainstick we
see the culmination of some hard work on
many fronts (although finding support
has never been their problem). While the
record doesn't excactly blow me away it
is not withoutits precious points. Recorded live to DAT Rainstickcomes real close
to capturing the intensity that the band
exhibits when playing hve. Even though
you can't exactly see Stuart Oijen going
ihrough the grind in an effort to emotion
alize his words you sure can hear hun. The
band shines best on songs like "Bury Me
Alive" and 'The Beyond" when they stray
away from the more conventional "college rock" structures, that hamper some of
this CD's other lunes, and venture into a
more experimental world that is entirely
iheir own. A worthwhile pick.
Steve Wells
Dag Nasty
Four On The Floor
(Epitaph)
Bad Religion
Generator
(Epitaph)
What happens when various members of
Dag Nasty wind up in the same city on
summer vacation? According lo ihe liner
notes, they spend a couple of weeks together, write some new material, resurrect
a couple of old tunes, do a UK Subs cover,
and call itan album. My impression, however, is thai these boys have downed one
swig too many from the (non-alcholic)
punch bowl of NOSTALGIA.
"It seems like a hundred years/but I
guess it's been only len" yelps Dave Smal-
ley in the opening track while he remi-
nices of ihe days of old when one could
still stage-dive without being verbally
abused by some balding, self-nghieous
than it will io you"croons Dave in "S.F.S.,"
and this really says it all in regards to the
lack of expression and vitality this record
offers to the listener. It's not just the oblique (and sometimes just plain cliche)
lyrics lhal bug me: it's
that Dag Nasty, at least
from the evidence on
this album, don't seem
lo have progressed anywhere or have anything
new to say. Sure, some
ofthe songs "rock," the
production and sound
quality is head and
shoulders above any of
their previous releases,
but in the context of the
whole record this is a
hollow endorsement.
The other recent
release from Epitaph is
Bad Religion's Generator. This album is a
perfect example of a band who still have
a purpose: 11 songs, every one of them an
example of Greg & Brett's depth as songwriters and Bad Religion's skill and passion as performers. Il only gets better
with every listen, so sit down with the
lyrics, listen, read, think, and know that
Bads Religion made Generator because
they had something to give, and they
Rory Tait
Various Artists
Clam Chowder and Ice vs Big
Macs and Bombers
(Nardwuar Records)
For those of you trying to keep up with
the Nard scene, there's a new release by
Ci'l"R's own bad boy of rock and roll
promotion, this lime with a theme. Who
is better, Canucks or Yanks? You gel to
choose. The record, white vinyl with blue
and pink paint swirls reminiscent of the
ol' Paint-O-Whirl craze at the P.N.E. a
few centuries ago, besides being impossible lo cue for us DJ types, is divided inlo
One side feaiurcs noble, albeit
naughly cross-border shopping, Canadian bands such as NoMeansNo, The Gnic-
s, Me, Mom and Morgentaler, Shad-
Of ci
-i for m
v Men
The olher side features those warmongering, lard munchin', Hariey
hawkin', Denny'sluvin', Hollywood hor-
kin' U.S. types—A-Bones, Squirrels,
Mudhoney (plccease...!),The Mummies,
and more. Make your choice, there's
Clam Chowder and Ice vs Big Macs and Bombers
which country deserves the big U.S. media-backed, Olympic musical gold medal
for cullural supremacy, but a few anomalies exist which make a selection difficult.
For example, my favorite band on ihc
record, the Devil Dogs from Brooklyn,
sound like Stompin' Tom, a Canadian
artist. And then the Clam Chowder reference. Clam Chowder, as we know it, was
invented in Boston. And Canadians eal
more Big Macs per capita than Yanks'
And to complicate things more, a quote
from John Ruskin (the architect) is also
pnntcd on the back, and he was British!!!
Bul if you're confused, resi your
culturally cmbatllcd brain cells wilh the
fact you can always jusl listen to Nardwuar's interviews wilh such famous people as Gilligan, Tom Vu, Johnny Freedom, and I lank the I lobo. If you're anyone, Nardwuar's probably interviewed
you. If noi, you're nol anyone. Nardwuar
has also been gracious enough lo give you
a few hi-fi hints such as correct needle
care and a hep band profile handbook-
all this for seven dollars! (Or aboul a
zillion useless, bonng, casy-to-counlcr-
fcit-bccause-lhcy're-all-thc-same-colour-
unlike-cvcry-othcr-civilizcd-country
Yank bucks.)
J. Boldt
The Terem Quartet
Terem
(Real World)
Before I gel into reviewing this release,
let me give you some
background on the
Real World Records
label. Real World was
pul together by Peter
Gabriel to release a
wide-ranging catalogue of music, from
ihc traditional to ihe
very modem, from all
comers of ihc world.
The catalogue is broken down by geography into nine areas:
Afnca, North America, South America,
Asia 1, Asia 2, Oce
ania, Canbbean, Furope and Indian Sub-
Most of the recordings are made in
ihe Real World Siudios in Wiltshire, England, wilh ihe musicians being flown in.
During August 1991, Real World and
WOMAD brought m more than 75 artists
from over 20 countries for a week of
recording, which is when thcTerem Quar-
tet were recorded.
These four Russian guys put oul
quile ihe eclectic assortment of traditional Russian music, along with iheir own
compositions. Mikhail Dzvidze plays a
huge bass balalaika, an acoustic upright
thrce-slnnged bass with a massive wooden tnangle-shapcd body. Andrei Srrumov
plays a Bayan Accordion, which is essentially just like any other accordion you've
seen or heard, but it is used in a different
sense mosl of the time. Andrei Konstanun- .
ov and Igor Ponomarcnto play soprano
andallodomias, respectively, usually rap-
ldlyplucking ihese guitar-like instruments.
The music is nol really dominated
by any single instrument. They are all
well represented in the mix, and they
really worked together quite well, the
players and ihcirinsirumcms thai is. They
borrow from all sons of musical styles
popping in and oul of their quirky compositions all the tunc, including iwo and a
half seconds of funk on "Toccata"! Most
of their stuff slays traditional/classical
sounding bul they do change directions,
making excursions into jazz as well as
doing a few fool-stompcrs. If Real World
music is your thang, you'll probably like
Adam Sloan
Entombed
Clandestine
(Earache Records)
Uhhhw!! Urghhh! Urwa-ah!!!...Sorry,jusl
trying to figure oul how you could write
that kind of gninl sound all those death-
core vocalists use so effectively. I guess il
loses something in the translation. Well,
Ihc gospel of dcathcore is proliferating at
a truly zealous rate. According to my
calculations these bands should be running oul of names in about two years
(Grotus and Gorguis were the first indica-
fflofo'5 r3ychotonic Tix Ole month
Greetings you ridiculous people! I can't figure out how I can still get
away with this column; I mean, the fact that you folks are actually
interested in hearing about my sick fetish forthe refuse of music is a
chilling testament to how completely warped you all are!
This week, I have a few tributes lo totally shameless excess.
There are probably two ideas most pervasive among the business types
and idea people. These thoughts usually come up in the same sentence
as the words 'easy money' do, and always seem to work on the
consumers. It is a good way to feed the same garbage to you on a new
and exciting plate.
1) Take a good idea and miniaturize it. This is an age old trick,
and is the concept behind cartoons like Muppel Babies and Scrappy
Doo. I mean, really, do miniature Oreos and Ritz minis really taste any
different than their larger cousins? I think not. In fact, it's a bitch to
spread Sqweez-a-snak on a Ritz mini, let me tell you, bub! Musically,
we get inundated with abominations like Mini-Pops, The Boys and kid
rappers from hell, Kriss Kross (oh yeah, don't forget Old Skull!). Bui
kid music is too shitty for even a weirdo like me to force you to read
about, so I'll concentrate on ...
2) Overkill, overkill, overkill!!! You can't get too much of a good
thing. This is the reason you can buy popcorn in bags that are taller than
you; the reason the 40 oz. bottle of beer exists; and don't forget about
the 50 colours of Jello. Musically, it's like this: if one of these sounds
good, let's try it with ten of them! I made a quick scour of my rekkid
library, and here a;
Flutes Fronl & Centre «Ray Rasch & the Pipers 10»Wamer
Ten flutes!!! Count 'cm! Ten! Add to the mix Ray Rasch's drooling
Hammond Organ and you have a match made in Cleveland. Comes
with hep classics like "Tulti Flutie"(no, not thai Flutic!) and "Holiday
For Strings"; plus a great action photo of the Pipers 10 jammin' with
Brother Ray.
Instrument Tally: 1 Hammond, 10 Flutes
Georgy Girl & Olher Music To Watch Girls By -Living Marim-
bas'RCA
Living .Marimbas go girl crazy on thishoppin' slab! I don'l know aboul
you, bul there's nothing I like better lhan a good marimba—30 or 40
of ihcm.evcn better! Girl watching wilh 30 or 40 of them, why not!!!!
Instrument Tally: Secret, but I'll go out on a limb and say 30 or 40
marimbas, and yes, they are living.
101 Strings Plus Guitars Galore! •Guess-AJshire
The album sleeve sez., "This is the first lime in history ofthe recording
arts Lhat six guitars have been scored with such a huge orchestra!!!" No
shit. The photo on the back of 101 Strings is worth the price alone.
Instrument Tally: 6 guitars, 60 violins, 20 violas, 20 cellos, 1 string
50 Guitars of Tommy Garrett Visit Hawaii •The 50 Guitars of
Tommy Carrt'tt'Liberly
Tommy "Snuff" Garrell docs I lawaii like no one else can! Il contains
"lively Hula Hands" and the controversial "Pagan Love Song."
1 nere are no artist credits, but the record has a lovely, but pointless,
gatcl'old describing the stereo process.
Instrument Tally: 36 guitars, 2 basses and "an army of ukcleles."
Heavy With /3up/7>vSuperconductor»Boner/Scralch
Continuing in true overkill spirit, Superconductor whip il oul for you
with a five song churning mass o' sound. Bargain priced, bin sadly not
on vinyl at ihis lime. You know what they say; "Two's company.
Superconductor's a crowd!"
Instrument Tally: 6 guitars, 2 basses, drums, bonlcmpi (cool!).
Power Packed Trornbone.s'Trombones, Inc.-Warner
This is a great lost classic. I have yel to find it, but it's gotta be swell!
If anyone oul there's got it, gimme il and I'll slip you a fiver.
Instrument Tally: 24 (!) Trombones
So, yeah, lhal'sal I I've got, but if you wanna, you can bring your
overkill greats down to mc care of CiTR, and I'll abuse you in this
very column in return. Plus, write me too,and I'll seek oul the records
you can't locale. Next month: Singin' TV Stars, part 2!!!!!!!!!!
lr@ some great effects and booming, growling, Dr. Who monster vocals, the band is
a little too stylized, especially in lyrical
content. They are on par musically (except for a lillle bil of glam-melal "guitar-
noodling") with ihe unfettered male aggressive ullra-pnmalness of bands Hke
Disharmonic Orchestra, Unleashed or
Pungent Slcnch. However, they lack the
punch in ihemessagc which makes groups
such as the Righteous Pigs or Christian
grungers Incubus a cul above. If these
bands spent more time on using this aggressive music style for a "cause," such as
theplight of suburban kids suffering from
advanced mall bumout, they would ensure iheirsurvival in an increasingly competitive grunge market. Okay, one more
time... Brawhhh!!!
J. Boldt
DISPOSABLE HEROES OF
HIPHOPRISY
Hipocrisyls the Greatest Luxury
(Island)
This is justaboul the moslrelevant hiphop
group in effect right now. Not even PF
can lay il down as plainly and pointedly as
these cats do. The Heroes rose out of the
ashes of the industrial rap act 'The Beatnigs, who folded in 1989. When the 'Nigs
only LP came out in 1987 there was no
other group thai combined ihc raw anger
of industnal music and elements of political rap of Their Lasl Pocls, African I lead
Charge and Linlon Kwesi Johnson's Brix-
lon-riol-cra dub poetry. Il was a significant loss when they disbanded.
Now the Disposable Heroes (consisting of iwo members of the aforementioned group) come out wilh a highly
charged expose of damn near everything
that's wrong with ihe globe right now.
They have taken ihe same stance that the
Beauiigs did, bul pul il to a groove thai
people who ihink less can understand.
Like those of fellow Calif omians Consolidated, TDIIOI l's beats arc slick and per-
susive, hammenng the message home
before ihe listener has a chance lo dismiss
a as pohucal claptrap. Concentrating on
domestic issues lhal aresorely overlooked
by ihe current American government and
people, the I Icroes cast iheir verbal barbs
with fervor.
Inc music of Ilipocrisy is basic
beats and samples, a backdrop to the message. Some cuts have a definite Gil Scoll-
Hcron influence, notably "Music & Politics," a self-examination where ihc rapper
lists his faults and assets to a coffeehouse
jazzy rhythm in irue Heron style. Inc
flipside of the coin is ihe cover of Dead
Kennedys'"California Uber Allcs,"donc
in a very weird singy-rappy way. "'Television, 'The Drug of ihe Nation" is a much
different version of the Beatnigs' well-
known song, and il loses a lol ofthe fire il
had in ihc original.
Allhough some would scoff al the
change in style and claim the 'Nigs were
much cooler, TDHOH lose none of the
conviction ihey had in ihc old group, nor
does ihc accessibility of ihcalbum detract
from the messages dealt oul to the huddled masses, languishing in ignorance
and apalhy.
Mofo
Jesus and Mary Chain
Honey's Dead
Blanco Y Negro
You know thai ihe Jesus and Mary Chain,
William and Jim Reid, arc an important
band. (Why? Because iheir press release
clearly stales lhat "Psychocandy is popularly credited as being the vinyl monument of the eighties.") Bui ihe nineties
has so far only provided a mixed greeting
to the J&MC. Automatic, allhough re-
26 TI^&smBTMll
leased in 1989 il is close enough inmy
books to count as the nineties, was a
lackluster effort, bolh musically and lyrically, and suffered from the lack of a live
drummer. On ihc whole ihe album was
unmcmorable except for "Head On" and
"Blues from the Gun." It would have been
the leasi interesting musical release from
J&MC had they nol followed it up with an
even worse release, the Rollercoaster EP
in 1990- which included an abysmal cover of Leonard Cohen's "Tower of Song."
However, the band has found success in lounng in the nineties: they headlined a Ix)llapalooza-type lour in the UK
with Blur, Dinosaur Jr., and My Bloody
Valentine, called the Rollercoaster ; and
this summer ihey, along wilh Ministry
and ihc headliners Red 1 lot Chili Peppers,
will be performing on the Lollapalooza II
Undoubtedly, the Jesus Mary Cham
will play songs from iheir new release
Honey's Dead, which is a welcomed return to their earlier distorted, feedbacked,
pop lunes, a la Psychocandy. Whereas
previous releases have found the band
merging utter dark despair with love (and
even, gasp, SFX), ihey havenow successfully blended religion inlo their murky
musical stew. The U.K. lop len hit "Reverence," as well "Teenage Lusi, Tumbledown," and "Good For My Soul,"
manage lo overcome ihe more mediocre
songs on Honey sDead, which tola Is aboul
a third of ihc songs.
While Honey's Dead may not be
the 'Monument of the 90s', nor even as
good an album as iheir superb Darklands
or Psychocandy, ii is nonetheless a good
album with a number of catchy tunes and
is a lol better lhan the disappointing Auto-
Lance Chalmers
Dub Syndicate
Stoned Immaculate
(On U-Sound)
Seems like mosl days sec al least one, if
not more, reggae discs being spun on the
home system and ihese days Stoned Immaculate fills the number one slot 'This is
music forthe soul, mind, and body. Lcl il
cure whatever ails you. Guaranteed aural
cleansing: unplug your ears and pour in at
full volume. The central nervous system
rejuvenates al maximum strength a.s riddims gush towards the extremities, dub
bubbles in waves throughout the innermost limits of ihe eternal groove and a
slow pulsating rhythm bubbles up your
spine. "Oul here in ihe perimeter there are
no stars. Oul here we is sloncd, immaculate." Bui don'l lake my word for it, iry it
yourself. Wadada.
Norm van Rassel
Plagal Grind
Plagal Grind EP
(Xpressway Records)
This band has broken up now, but in a
couple of years it will be legendary. All of
ihe participants are active in other groups
or projects in and around Duncdin/Pon
Chalmers, on the south island of New
l.ik
cords ti
way, il has a lo-fi, echoey sound.
whal I can gather, mosl of ihe music is
recorded aisomebody's apartment,on ihe
same four-track machine. 'The songs are
loosely organized, with sudden shifts and
droning builds. The closest comparison
would be to ihe Syd Barren of "Scream
'Thy Lasl Scream" or "No Man's Land."
Al a friend's place ihe other night
we put it on while we played Risk. 'Hie
stereo kepi repealing the second side over
and over. Wc noticed, however, no one
wanted to lake u off.
Mark Szabo
Jim Rose Circus Sideshow
Town Pump
Tuesday 24 March
I must admit I had a few qualms while
waiting for ihe Jim Rose Circus Sideshow to begin. I had heard aboul Mr.
Lifto and the guy who regurgitates beer,
so as I sal in the crowded Town Pump I
wondered aboul ihe ethics of slapping
down ten bucks to see people do painful
things to themselves. Unlike the sideshows of yore, the participants had a
choice about performing, and with my
conscience thus assayed I awaited the
festivities.
Jim Rose was the cmcec/stunl-
master for the evening and, in addition to
having darts thrown at his back and
grinding his face into glass, he turned out
to be a humourous hosl. The comedy
was a mosl welcome rel icf lo some of the
more... uhm, hard lo stomach parts ofthe
'Hie night was off to a slow slarl
wilh ihe Torture King walking up a ladder wilh razor blades. Fortunately, the
entertainment level escalated from this
point. The proceedings were accompanied by hilariously appropriate organ
music played by (as we discovered later
in the show) the Human Terrarium, who
happily ate maggols, worms and crick-
Not far inlo the festivities appeared
Ihc amazing Mr. Liflo who began by
demonstrating how he didn't need a closet He carried his shoes from his ears
wilh coalhangers and his coal from his
nose. And, of course, whal everybody
had been waiting for, he lifted an iron
wilh slrings hooked up lo his pierced
nipples. ITicn.asagrand finale, he lifted
another iron with his shaving cream-
coaled penis (his foreskin was pierced).
The disguise might've had something to
do wilh avoiding a night in jail for inde-
c\posun
Guv
had a dale ii
while'.' Well, do the Mr. Lifto schtick
and ihe girls will flock lo you (witness al!
the aulographs lhat Mr. Lifto signed after Ihc show, plus the fact lhat he looked
cool).
Then came my personal "this is
hard lo lake" acl wilh the Human Pincushion. Walching somebody push skewers ihrough his arms, voicebox, eye-
sockci and his (gulp) cheeks is a bit hard
to deal with, 'specially as I was standing
near the big video screen so I could see
ihe close-ups. Jim Rose made sure that
we knew how painful it was lo take the
skewers out while my stomach did a
slow roll.
Most amusing though was when
the Human Pincushion took off his shirt
lo reveal fifty small pins, with lights
attached, poked through his chest. He
then held a neon lube in his moulh and
Jim Rose cheerfully hooked him lo an
electric generator and the Human Pincushion looked like a Christmas tree.
Ine Pincushion donned a halo laden
with neon, got electrically charged up,
and blessed the audience, who ate the
spectacle up.
The other act thai people were
eager to see was Mall 'the Tube' Crowley, who gave a whole new meaning to
"up your nose with a rubber hose." It
was a pretty huge hose, loo. "The Tube'
pul a hose down lo his slomach and Jim
Rose pumped beer inlo Matt Crowley's
stomach via a container wilh a plunger.
And then, yes, it was oul again and, yes,
I had a...uhm, greal lime and ihc
good news is, they're coming back.
June Scudeler
Big Audio Dynamite II
PiL
Live
Blind Melon
PNE Forum
Monday 26 March
The musical icemen cometh, dredged
from the sanctuary of time lo be resurrected inlo the world of a fast cash music
industry where exploitation and high
tickel prices at arena venues reign supreme. Dares i I say it, but it seems that
ol' Sid Vicious gol ihe decent end ofthe
deal and an easy way out wilh a heroin
Sid will always be remembered
for his landmark influence in the 70s
punk scene, his youlh a drug-ridden and
painful life that sel a precedent for a
punk explosion to follow. In his death he
will never grow old, never wrinkle, and
never end life as a has-been musician
whose gut (and but!) will bloat lo repulsive, Pillsbury™ dough-boyish, balloon-
like proportions.
Yes, I'm referring lo transformed
fellow Pistols personality, the totally
puh-lhctic Mr. Johnny "Rollen" Lydon,
the snide and highly uncnlerlaining front-
man of PuWk* Image Ltd.
But what aboul the music, you
may ask in exasperation as I delve into
the rather sordid account of the performers? I suppose if I could have heard il
perhaps11 could suck some merit from
the fading flowers of the over-hyped
tour. However, due to the unfortunate
sound at the PNE Forum, all I heard was
echo, feedback, static, and the occasional hint of some lyrics through which I
was lucky enough to identify a tune or
By the time Lydon launched into
the popular "Disappointed" the irony
abounded. An unenthused (bored) and
unresponsive crowd was no doubt puzzled as to how he could possibly be so
knowledgeable on the topic of friendship given his unsavory and dislikable
character. Mr. Lydon's mooning ofthe
audience insured that they would remain
silent, not from shock but from total
apalhy. Like we honestly cared how grotesquely huge his ass has grown.
"Acid Drops" from PiL's new CD,
That WhalNotls, sort of lent itself to the
chaotic and unclear forum sound (not
that it makes it a good song or anything),
while "Rise" was forgettable as the closing song. Little or no revelation came
from Johnny's words. Lydon walked off
stage muttering something into the mic
about how Vancouver has neither energy nor anger. He was blatantly blind to
the fact that the audience was merely
reacting to an uninspiring performance.
To be honest, I had no intention of
trashing this show. The menagerie of
bands was a little peculiar, and the MTV
promo seemed somewhat unorthodox
for two ex-punk rockers—allhough I
admil thai I actually enjoyed the BAD II
release The Globe. It has upbeat, happy-
bum pop lunes lhal don't pretend lo be
anything but upbeat and happy-bum.
Mr. Mick Jones, formerly of the Clash,
fronts the new BAD II.
Whilemostofthesongs performed
were from the new album, The Globe,
the band did ventur to play some old
BAD songs. Still, the BAD II set was
rather predictable and decidedly mundane. However, I managed a quick grin
as I picked oul Jones singing the lyrics
"somehow I stayed thin, while ihe other
guys got fat," taken from thetune"Rush."
Bravo Joe, if only the other members of
your tour were so fortunate.
I should also briefly mention the
first two bands, Live and Blind Melon.
Due lo a nasty biking accident and a
heavy dose of Demerol 1 admit lhat I
missed 'em both, although I made a
point of asking the people around me
what they were like.
Sounds
like I got off
easy with a
muscle   tear
least   1   was
killers. Thcun-
fortunale audience had to sit
through two
painful sets of
bad music. But
thal'sjusthear-
say.sowhoam
I lo judge?
So how-
does lhal old
exprcssiongo?
Old musicians
Sara
Faulkner
Seaweed
aMiniature
Blunt
German band
The Cruel Elephant
Wednesday 8 April
Unbeknownst lo me and many other
audiencemembers at the Cruel Elephant,
someone decided to let a band thai had
just arrived from Germany open the
show. I don't imagine that the decisionmaker involved had heard the unnama-
ble band previous to letting them play.
Bad move, I'd say. Some surprises are
good and some fall into the category of
shocks. A horrendous barrage of bad
music assaulted my unsuspecting, unblocked ears. Not only did they play
their own lousy songs; they also performed an atrocious cover of an L7 song
lhat they had no business covering. I
don't know who they were, but if lever
find out I'll besure to miss theirnextset
The second band fell into the pleasant surprise genre. Blunt quelled the
mutiny in my ears with their comparative skill. Punk rock fiddle and singers
who can sing always cheer me up. I was
so thrilled with what I heard that I rushed
up to CiTR to listen to their sadly boring
CD. The album didn't include their rollicking good time of a cover, "Whole
Lotta Love." Unfortunately, the band
resides in Houston, Texas, therefore, it is
unlikely thai they'll be back lo Vancouver anytime soon. Make no mistake, the
CD is no substitute.
BecauseBlunlmayhaveoulslayed
their welcome, aMinialure's sel was
somewhat abridged, which was fine by
me. They were youngish and energetic,
but Ihey lacked that special SoCal something. The bass player broadcasted his
musical sympathies through his Rocket
From the Crypt t-shirt, however his actual playing proved slap-happy. The obnoxious plucking almost drowned out
the singer's weak vocals. Seaweed's set
was relatively uncorrupted by other people's music. No cover versions, no funk-
induced bass slapping, bul ironically,
theirsongs all sounded remarkably alike.
Is il possible for a band to rip off ils own
songs? It's lucky lhal ihey wrote at least
one catchy song lhal they could parley
into a full-length set. Uniform sound or
no uniform sound, they did inspire a
whole lot of boys in toques to hop up and
down enthusiastically. I'm sure that fun
counts for somelhing.
Mindy
HOTO: LEN WHISTLER MR. T. EXPERIENCE
Ice-T
Eye to I
Commodore Ballroom
Wednesday 8 April
The opening band, Eye lo I, are a hip-hop/
funk oriemcd band with a remarkably obnoxious vocalist (imagineMorion Downey
Jr. with a voice like Minnie Mouse, in a
skimpy garb with a bad-ass altitude). The
only other person worth mentioning was
thebassman. You see, being all effects and
no technique leaves me wishing he left his
theatrical solo at home along with his
fuzzbox. Yuck. Still, they were more entertaining lhan the comedian the audience
suffered through in '89.
Ice-T look the stage doing his rap
stuff fast The set sounded like a greatest
hils collection spanning all his releases,
new and old. h would have been pleasing
io hear some of the less popular stuff, but
1 somehow gol the feeling lhat Ice-T was
performing material lhat the majority of
the crowd expected. That is, his unique
blend of west coast rap that's hard enough
to gain him respect among the east coasl
elite. But music comprised only half the
set. The other half was his between-song
jokeielling, storytelling, opinions and other various forms of hyping up ihc crowd.
Some commented on the lack of necessity
ofthe interjections allhough ii added to the
entertainment without spoiling ihe flow of
ihe set In fact, some parts were downright
creative. For example, Ice-T performed
"Colors" in thestylcof aLas Vegas lounge
act II was ihis son of variety thai challenged the open-mindedness of the audience lo the point of iheir defeat.
Following the rap set was whal I
thought Ice-T was really on the road
for...Body Count Although it won't be
released in Canada (allhough CiTR has a
copy) I'm sure he warned his rap reputation to attract potential Body Count supporters. Unfortunately, a sizable minority
didn't slick around. Too bad for ihem.
Body Count had a lol of personality and
good material. Watching a group of guys
from South Central L.A. flapping their
Raiders' toques around with the rhythm
guilarisidonniiigajason-slylcgoaliemask
was truly a sight to behold. Although you
may not gel a chance to see Ice-T soon, fret
not Wilh a musical style like that of Suicidal Tendencies and song lilies like "I'm
In Love With a KKK Bitch," you'll be
hearing plenty about him.
Braden Zrno
John Korsrund's Hard Rubber
Orchestra
The Glass Slipper
Thursday 16 April
Shake up three ounces of jazz and two
ounces of hardcorenew music. Add a dash
of rock and roll and a serious dose of John
Korsund's twisted musical mind. The fi-
isical ci
is that can balan
ber of aesthetics simultaneously ii
manner lhal I, unformulated disliker of
most improvisatory musics, divulge the
secret lhal ihis outfit is definitely to be
listened to.
With the big band forces of irum-
pels, trombones, saxophones, a sousa-
phone, and a rhythm section which includes the very excellent bassist Paul
Blaney, TIRO plays mctamorphasized standards, arrangements of nol-so-standards,
Korsrud's own compositions which reflect his broad musical experience, and
other favorites such as Hendrix's "Manic
Depression", featuring electric violinist
Cam Wilson (yes, bolh he and his violin
are lull of electricity). IIRO also brings in
guests. This tunc the charismatic soprano
Siphonc McKenzie sang solo as well as
wilh ihe group. The other guest was filmmaker Alex Taylor whose short film was
shown along with snippets of the 1970s
Ali/Frazier fight Without a doubt, a concert by I IRO is a quilled cornucopia; full
band with a musica! border-dissolve unit
Gregor Samsa, visit wilh the Hard Core
Rubber Orchestra righl away.
Paul Steenhuisen
Violent Femmes
The Commodore Ballroom
Tuesday 7 April
Well, 1 went to the Violent Femmes gig
because I think the Violent Femmes arc an
excellent group. I've been a fair-wcalhcr
fan of ihis band for years and ihis was the
firsl opportunity I've had to sec them live.
Mistake. 1 love the music bul I just cannot
enjoy myself ai those "corporate" concerts, ifyou will. Tickets wcre$27.00. The
show sold out in advance. Whal, may I
propose, do all these sickly ingredients
add up to? Yuppies. Drunk and obnoxious
! have
nothing against a drunk and obnoxious
person but, oh mercy, when you add the
splendour of yuppie-hood, you basically
have one ofthe more pathetic examples of
human behaviour on your hands.
'The Violent Femmes camconslage
lo an absolute roar of Vancouvcritc vocal
chords. Gordan's voice was sounding excellent: like a real scratched up, crackly
old record. Stand-up drummer Victor was
in extremely high spirits, jumping all over
the place and yelling into the mic. Towering cowboy-punk bassist Brian slill attains lhat mean ass fuck expression under
ihe brim of a black, len gallon hat The
band was going strong and sounding good.
I was almost forgetting the idiol
people around me when a Kokanec beer
can came (lying oul of the crowd to hit
Brian squarely in the face. TTiey finished
the song they were playing and Brian
an obvious mistake on Ritchie's part. Never
threaten drunk,
yuppiebastards.
When they are
in a mob, as they certainly were that night,
they will only take you up on it.
After about threemore songs, in the
middle of "Nightmares," yet another can
was lobbed from the crowd to hil Brian
again! Of course, nol being the bearers of
empty threats, the drummer dropped his
slicks, Gordon put down his guilar, and
Brian, afler glaring intently at the audience for a moment, put down his bass and
they all left ihe stage. The crowd went
quiet for a moment and then the silence
quickly transformed intoanincrediblcroar
with groups of people chanting "Violent
Femmes!" Everyone stamped their feet,
screamed and clapped. A punk got up on
slage and screamed into the mic "don'l
chuck shil on ihc band, it's not cool." Ihis
as he was thrown off the stage by security.
Next came the second mistake. After fifteen minutes of an incredible din
from the crowd, the band re-enters the
slage. They should not have come back on.
If they were going to slay on then they
should have stayed on, if they were going
to leave then ihey should have left. If they
had ended the show righl then, il would
have been an incredible show. It would be
the mosl interesting thing I've seen since
the Dwarves. Il would have fucked ihe
yuppies. Bul ihey did come back on.
Drummer Victor spok e to the crowd
to play...." Later on in the sel Gordon
spoke: "Well, here we have a break where
I say something and you say 'oh wow,
that's cool he spoke to us' but I'm nol
going to say anything because I don't want
to, I'm not in the mood." TTic rest of the set
went on fairly uninterrupted.
We all got lo hear the big hits like
"Blister in the Sun" and "Kiss Off." 'The
band wore fake smiles as they pounded out
their raucous beat. They were called back
for two encores which included the excellent anthems "American Music" and "Add
II Up."The highlight song for me was the
absolute rockin' "Girl Trouble Up ihe
So ihcrc you have il, lhat's what
happened. To recap my review: the band
was good, the crowd was bad. The yuppie
fucks don't know it, but ihey were'triumphant. And it was the Violent Femmes'
fault for letting them win. Nonelhcless,
the Violent Femmes are slill a great group.
Grant Lawrence
Lush
Flaming Lips
The Commodore Ballroom
Saturday 18 April
the mood for dreamy guitar pop, but I
tried, I really did. I attempted to sway with
a modicum of enthusiasm, but I gave up.
The cool thing about Lush are the
two women, Miki, who did most of the
singing and Emma, who did the guitar
thing. Lots of atmospheric fog and pretty
nifty lasers were the highlights. I wandered around and nettwerked with Tpnni
and Catherine, then chatted with
Pete'n'Jane of Perfume Tree fame. Oh
yeah, then 1 went to the Bread Garden and
saw Peie'n'Janc, and Bruce, and my concert companion (who had a great time and
read a lot) lick ihe icing off my plate of
A Hodgepodge of Musical
Events
March & April 1992
The party spirit was definitely screaming
to escape this past month, allhough I am
notsurc if the real radicalme has come oul.
I can't remember when I saw the bands
I 'm aboul lo mention or even all the bands
I saw, bul here are some lhal managed lo
penetrate my long term memory.
Mr. T Experience, The Smugglers
and The Goblins played a cool lillle gig al
56 Gallery in late March, proving lhal you
don'l need a Martin P.A. lo pul down on a
gig. Sound can exist in 2 Traynor 15's if
you use a brain and turn down the guitar.
Mr. Serviette was there lo perfonn as a
Goblin and to sell the firsl copies of his
latest compilation featuring Beal Happening and Hank ihc Hobo. I'm sorry that I
missed the Goblins bul some bar had cheap
one l heard talk of them.
The Smugglers rocked oul like a
Saturday nighl dance but froiiunan Gram
forgot it was Sunday and wanted more
applause. Beez, the ex-Mannequin but
present Smuggler, sang a pretty love song,
or shall I say one lhat is likely w make him
the reeip lent ot ihe odd slap from offended
ladies. 'They also have a new drummcr|ex-
Vindicalor, Bryce Dunn.—lid.] who is
quile good and has more hair lhan ihe rest
of the band put together (excepi Beez).
Dave the lead guilar player always looks
like he is having a good tunc and has
mastered garage/surf lead playing down
lo a Mr. T., and is backed by a competent
rhythm player.
Mr. T. Experience kept ihe energy
up until the fuzz said no more. The lead
singer/guiiar player mentioned ihe latest
"new wave" of music threatening to lake
over the planet. I remember reading m a
late sixties rock book using the same term
lo describe Ten Years After and Fleetwood Mac. While I enjoyed most of their
set, I found lhal afler aboul seven or eight
songs, they all started to sound ihc same,
bul then I had never heard them before. I
did buy a couple of bottle openers off them
'cause they were cool shades of pink and
green, bul when I go; home I remembered
Oh deal
ie of those flavo
of the month British groups and ihc laste
was definitely bland. The Flaming Lips
opened and did noisy 6()'s stuff.
Okay, so maybe I wasn't exactly in
band has awesome potential.
Ho features a singer who plays an
acoustic through a Fender Super reverb or
something similar. I wished that I could
hear his vocals over top of the guitar
because they seemed interesting. The ex-
Oclatrackter bass player Darren is starting
to Usten to Mr. Pastorius, or at least a
couple of fIREHOSE albums-good work.
I heard lhal the drummer is also in Lung.
Alien and the Psycho, I must admit, kicked
a little bull ihis evening. Everyone in this
band is probably five years younger lhan
the world famous rock slar of ihe evening.
I hope these Abbotsford lads keep il up!!
The What Gallery is now between
Commercial and Clark in the back alley
between Pender and Frances. They have
gigs that start around 2:00 a.m. on Friday
and Saturday nights. Il is almost the most
awesome place in the world if it wasn't for
ihe odd person (male and female) who
decides lhal fists and blood make a nice
smell. If ihey don'l Uke you at the What
they 'U throw empty beer cans on the stage.
Not in the player's face too often, jusl on
ihc stage (please).
I think the highlight of my month
i band called Golliwog.
si off c
s thes.
Lillle Joe/1 lo/Alicn and ihe Psychos performed ai the Cruel Elephant a
few days later. The firsl lime 1 saw Utile
Joe I thought it was beyond brilliant and
super tight. Miss beautiful Chrome Gorilla even gol on slage for a bUslcring rendition of a Meat Loaf number. I really dig the
numbers lhal these boys have written. 1
heard that Chi Pig hurl his back or something and wasn't able io practice as much,
and we all know that he was pretty busy
with the latest SNFU lour. liven though all
of the players and ihe singer were doing
their jobs quite well, ihe overall performance was not as light as the lasl lime 1
saw ihem. For anyone who only saw them
this nighl I would like io tell them that this
Ban
. and c!
cause at least no one went up to him and
did lhat Wayne's World "We're not worthy" thing.
Teenage Fanclub emerged with a
ralher generic sounding instrumental but,
afler all, the shirts they were selling pledged
"100% recycled music." Their songs,
which seem rather long on disc, lend lo
feel pretty short Uve, and ihey had large
gaps between songs. However, when ihey
played they demonstrated an ability lo
write some good pop tunes. They had
people dancing, moshing, and singing
along to their catchier songs "The Concept," "Whal You Do To Me," and "Star
Sign.'They paid their obvious debt to Big
Slar with a cover of an Alex Chilton tune,
and even improvised a danceable Utile
ditty using guitar practice scales. It's a
given that they're not much more than a
glorified, alternative rock bar band with
some good melodic hooks, but they do
have fun on-stage, don't mess up toomuch
and, above all, are very poUte.
J. Margolis
The Pixies
Commodore Ballroom
Saturday 25 April
icipaiion. 'Hie real live
e. And
lude lo a band fronted by a Morrisonesque
poet wilh a goixl voice. They didn 'i sound
at aU lacking wilhoul a guilar player: jusl
bass, drums and vocals pounding out
thrashy.chcctahy, punky,art-fuck sludge.
me, a Pixies virgin, entrusted with the
awesome responsibility of sharing my
thoughts on the show wilh ihe untold millions who read Discorder. Oh, the pres-
Three cheers!!!!
Lucky for mc, this show was an
Another band I saw al the Whal lhat
easy one to review. By the lime the Pixies
1 liked was Man. who will have io change
finally look the slage, sometime after mid
their name when ihey get a second female
night, the crowd was ready, willing, and
guilar player as my Ouija board insists.
able io cheer and dance hysterically no
This mega-light, Seattle-sounding combo
matter what the band actually sounded
has an excellent singer who plays bass.
like. 'The Pixies must have figured ihis out,
Elvis LoveChilddidn'igcianycans thrown
because that meant lhal all ihey had to do
at them, so the people musl have liked
was show up and play iheir music—which
ihem, but everyone was ux> tired lo re
is whal ihey did. Quile well, in fact
spond, including me. If Gram from the
It's jusl lhal ihere was nothing
Schmugs thinks he had it bad, Elvis of the
unique about the show al all. Nothing was
nighl himself was putting al least 200 per
bad, nothing was great. 'Hie lighting was
cent inlo his vocals and receiving one clap
adequate, bul not spectacular. The sound
lor every ten people. G<x>d bass player.
was ihc pretty average Commodore-
Evan Symons
sound—nol so loud lhal you couldn't hear
Teenage Fanclub
Afghan Whigs
Commodore Ballroom
Sunday 19 April
was inlo Teenage Fanclub: ihe Scottish
band's second disc, Bandwagonesque, was
named SPIN Magazine's album of ihc
year, and 1 saw said disc in many CD and
tape collection, llus m mind, I was surprised by ihc dismal turnout lo the band's
Vancouver's dcbul (well, dismal compared
to the Lush show the nighl before). Easter
commitments, or ihc band's lackluster performance on Saturday Night Live must
have kepi people from going because the
gig had ihe lowest licket prices for a "British press' next big thing" since Ned's
Atomic Duslbin.
Cincinnati's Afghan Whigs got the
show offloa sloppy slarl, but somecalchy
melodies emerged from their murk, lliis
Sub Pop band has many greal lunes, but
their besl stuff lends lo sound a lol like
other bands, such as their Sonic Youth
meets ihc Replacements' "Retarded," or
the Dinosaur Jr. sounding "Conjure Mc."
Eventually, ihey got ihccrowdmoshing to
the industrial sounding "Congregation."
title track lo iheir latest disc. Ixad singer
yourself think, nol so quiet lhal you could
hearyourselfperspire. Oh, by the way, the
band was alright loo. Wilh the exception
ot ihe periodic release ol controlled bursis
of feedback. Black & Co. sounded pretty
becoming clear thai ihey weren't going to
iry anything lhat required a lot of imagination wilh any of iheir songs.
They didn'l even say anything to
the crowd, which was probably a good
thing. Somehow, "Hello Vancouver, il's
greal to be here, arc you ready lo rock
and roll?" woudn't quite have been their
'Their set of music was pretty safe,
concclrating, bul nol keeping exclusively
' rompe le Monde. "U-Mas:
u (they
.'ed it Ii
.sil a-
a high-
»wards|U'nloi
.nthen
match r
<c Discord-
-Ud.l
who came up from Seattle lo catch ihe
show. Mosi of the crowd seemed oblivious lhal ihey were standing m ihe midst of
rock'n'roll royalty, which was goixl bc-
classic "Here Comes Your Man," which
drew a predictably enthusiastic cheer of
recognition from the crowd. My only real
complaint was the length of their sel. Il
seemed short, particularly since ihere was
no encore—the Pixies barely had time lo
clear ihc slage before the house lights
Apart from thai, there was lillle else
lo say aboul the show—good, bad, or
otherwise. In short,ihe Pixies didn't let the
show be about anything other lhan iheir
music, which was probably ihe point II
you like their stuff, you liked ihe show. 11
it served you right tor going in
irst place. Why should the Pixies
'The> ha\e your 24 bucks either way.
UUldl
*Q) STUDENTS - WELCOME TO
JPHRfl©ISflk
VANCOUVER'S BEST SHOW VALUE!
GREAT TRIPLE FEATURES! SEE 3 FILMS FOR ONLY $2.50!
ENJOY THE BEST IN MOVIE ENTERTAINMENT AT THE LOWEST TICKET PRICE IN TOWN
VANCOUVER'S ORIGINAL DISCOUNT THEATRE AND STILL THE BEST!
ALL
SEATS
ALL
DAY
WEmNTTOMKETHEPARADSEYOURFAVOURITETHEATRE
24 HR. SHOW INFO: 681-1732
THBY  % | ANP TOUCH,  j
AND
1 DANCE. |BpPgBtjjr^W3H^
PURR. 1
"ask. •'SSWi'^H
H-frnm    *\\\^'^*WfrWa^^Xai.    wLW a*" *w_i __*_^_4_> ?>*•>** ^"iV"   ° >_■
_P-*_Hh_K^*__^I
_-jSa__!-g--P/«M
KMRv^l  lyF i_r     M^i
^vv^H ^r«j_2______                 ___m__________l__l__ _-___PI_.     /i^__l
HI
TO
I
-DMA
Ti_FNEfc
you'if me
PNE JOB FAIR '92
OVER 1500 JOBS!
The Pacific National Exhibition is about to begin its annual recruitment drive for fairtime
employees to work at this year's annual provincial Fair, August 21 - September 7, 1992.
The job opportunities are vast and varied, including:
•ticket sellers
•waiters/waitresses
•tour train conductors
• patrol
•ground maintenance
•drivers
•hosts/hostesses
•pet and poultry
• and many, many more
There are over 1,500 positions waiting to be filled, ranging from $7.06 to $10.16/hour.
"The P.N.E. is you'n'me", and ifyou would like tojoin our team, please apply in person
at our JOB FAIR, where a listing of positions together with pay rates will be available:
Friday, May 8,1992
Saturday, May 9,1992
EXHIBITION PARK
ENTER VIA GATE 2 OFF RENFREW
10 am - 7 pm
9 am - 4 pm
JUST FOR SUMMER...
YOUR ALTERNATIVES
HAVE DOUBLED!
PIUS; 13.25 _L»   \UW,
MAY^) I      ' I'aa'.VM ,.4
^al^a'-a
DiSCORDER DATEBOOK
FRIDAY 1 Sherman Robertson at the Yale...Bob's Your Uncle with
Jerry Jerry & the Sons of Rhythm Orchestra, Jho Nek Bone, the
Sweaters at 86 Street... Dog Eat Dog at the What Gallery... Hitting
Birth with Itch, Man and Facepuller at the Cruel Elephant... Groove
'92 with Quick Trouble (116 E 2nd Ave)... Terpischorus at the Glass
Slipper... Peggy Baker Solo Dance at the Vancouver East Cultural
Centre... Elizabeth Fischer's Little Things exhibition opens at A Walk
Is (until the 31st)... Bugsy (7pm) and Goodlellas (9:35pm) at the
Ridge...
SATURDAY 2 Mayhem warehouse party with Derrick "Mayday"
May and R-Tyme (116 E 2nd Ave)...The Imagineers with The Show
Business Giants, Cane Toads, and Whining Dining and Drilling at the
Cruel Elephant... Sherman Robertson at the Yale... Ahmed Hassan's
Music & Myths at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre (2pm)...
Peggy Baker Solo Dance at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre...
Claude Ranger Quartet at the Glass Slipper... Vancouver Bach
Choir's Last Night at the Proms at the Orpheum.. Sass Jordan at 86
Street... Bugsy (7pm) and Goodlellas (9:35pm) at the Ridge...
SUNDAY 3 Daryl Jahnke Trio at the Glass Slipper...S.N.F.U. at the
Cruel Elephant... Roy Bailey at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre. . Spirit ot the West with Bourne & Macleod and Acoustically
Inclined at the Commodore... Bugsy (7pm) and Goodlellas (9;35pm)
at the Ridge...
MONDAY 4 CiTR Alternative Night at the Pit Pub... Oliver & the
Elements at the Yale... Highway 61 (7:30pm) and Easy Rider (9:30pm)
at the Ridge...
TUESDAY 5 70's Disco at the Cruel Elephant...Incognito at the
Yale... Highway 61 (7:30pm) and Easy Rider (9:30pm) at the Ridge...
WEDNESDAY 6 CiTR Hot Wednesday at the Pit Pub...Green Day,
Ghetto Schiest & Alien and the Psycho at the Cruel Elephant...
L'Europe Des Poetes Serge Kerval at the Vancouver East Cultural
Centre... Fantazea at the Glass Slipper... Incognito CD release party
at the Yale... Overexposed 1992 SFU Student Films (7:30pm) at the
Ridge...
THURSDAY 7 CiTR Alternative Night at the Pit Pub...The
Indecisives with Sons and Lovers, Scott B. Sympathy and No Evil Hair
at 'he Cruel Elephant.. Meat Puppets with Disposable Heroes of
Hiphoprisy at the Town Pump... Blaney/Ord Amalgamation at the
Glass Slipper... Perfume Tree with Movieland at the Commodore...
Incognito atthe Yale...Overexposed 1992 SFU Student Films (7:30pm)
at the Ridge...
FRIDAY 8 Incognito at the Yale... Garbo's Hat at the Glass
Slipper... "Skatanism" with Coffin Break, Loot Bag, and Aging Youth
Gang... Blur with Senseless Things at 86 Street... Legends of Rock n'
Roll with James Player, Brian Andrews, Larry Branson at the Commodore... Bill Morrissey at the Backstage (Seattle). . The Prince of Tides
(7pm) and Meeting Venus (9:30pm) at the Ridge...
SATURDAY 9 Incognito at the Yale... Little Joe with Deadbeat
Backbone and Sex With Nixon at the Cruel Elephant... Paul Plimley
Quartet at the Glass Slipper... Harambe IX Tribute to Bob Marley with
Cinnamon, Tropical Breeze, Fire Temple, Andy Oliver & His Band at
the Commodore... Frozen Ghost with Wild T & the Spirit at 86 Street...
The Prince of Tides (7pm) and Meeting Venus (9:30pm) at the
Ridge...
SUNDAY 10 Hermeto Pascoal Group at the Vancouver East
Cultural Centre... Unsane with King Carcass at the Cruel Elephant
(show starts 8 pm)... Al di Meola & His Band at the Commodore...
Vancouver Men's Chorus' Cityfolk at the Orpheum... Tony Wilson's
Bugs Alive at the Glass Slipper... The Prince of Tides (7pm) and
Meeting Venus (9:30pm) at the Ridge...
MONDAY 11 CiTR Alternative Night at the Pit Pub... Dick Siegel
at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre... Oliver & the Elements at
the Yale... Until the End of the World (7:30pm) at the Ridge...
TUESDAY 12 Original Sinners at the Yale... 70's Disco at the
Cruel Elephant... Until the End of the World (7:30pm) at the Ridge...
WEDNESDAY 13 CiTR Hot Wednesday at the Pit Pub... Crawl
and Trust Us with Zolty Cracker and Six Inch Maria at the Cruel
Elephant... Two Nice Girls at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre...
Maya-Sounds of India at the Glass Slipper... Original Sinners at the
Yale... Mean Streets (7:15pm) and Chinatown (9:25pm) at the Ridge...
THURSDAY 14 CiTR Alternative Night at the Pit Pub... Jack
Feels Fine, Truk, and The Many at the Cruel Elephant... Al Wiertz &
Bebop Gone Mad at the Glass Slipper... Al Walker Band video
release party at th.e Yale... Buffalo Tom atthe Backstage (Seattle)...
Mean Streets (7:15pm) and Chinatown (9:25pm) at the Ridge...
FRIDAY 15 Larry Roy & Marilyn Lerner Quartet at the Glass
Slipper... Sweaty Nipples at the Cruel Elephant... Hard Rock Miners
CD release party with Grames Brothers and Rattled Roosters at the
Commodore... Al Walker Band video release party at the Yale...
Voyager (7pm & 9:25pm) at the Ridge...
SATURDAY 16 Larry Roy _ Marilyn Lerner Quartet at the Glass
Slipper... Cop Shoot Cop and Drone at the Cruel Elephant... Al
Walker Band video release party at the Yale... Voyager (7pm &
9:25pm) at the Ridge...
SUNDAY 17 Primal Orbit at the Glass Slipper... Voyager (7pm &
9:25pm) atthe Ridge...
MONDAY 18 CiTR Alternative Night at the Pit Pub... Oliver & the
Elements at the Yale... Voyager (7pm & 9:25pm) at the Ridge...
TUESDAY 19 Liz Mandeville with the Demons at the Yale... 70's
Disco at the Cruel Elephant... Ride with Slowdive at the Commodore... Henry Kaiser at the Backstage (Seattle)... Voyager (7pm &
9:25pm) at the Ridge...
WEDNESDAY 20 CiTR Hot Wednesday at (he Pit Pub... Bewitched with Kreviss and Mecca
THURSDAY 21 CiTR Alternative Night at the Pit Pub... Helios
Creed and Noise Floor at the Cruel Elephant... Vancouver Lesbian
& Gay Choir's Sing-Out at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre...
Cowboy Junkies at the Orpheum... Impromptu Jazz Ensemble at the
Glass Slipper... Liz Mandeville with the Demons at the Yale... Voyager (7pm & 9:25pm) at the Ridge...
FRIDAY 22 Liz Mandeville with the Demons at the Yale... Rumble
Fish, Dose Pump, and The Juice Monkeys at the Cruel Elephant...
Vancouver Lesbian & Gay Choir's Sing-Out at the Vancouver East
Cultural Centre... Bruce Freedman Quartet at the Glass Slipper...
Voyager (7pm & 9:25pm) at the Ridge...
SATURDAY 23 Liz Mandeville with the Demons at the Yale...
Lethal Gospel and Motherwell at the Cruel Elephant... Roger Baird
* MuseArt at the Glass Slipper... Harem Scarem at 86 Street...
Second Nature with Water at the Commodore... Buckwheat Zydeco
at the Backstage (Seattle)...Voyager (7pm 8c 9:25pm) at the Ridge...
SUNDAY 24 Above Ground at the Glass Slipper... The Muffs with
Cheater Slicks at the Cruel Elephant... Lowry Olafson & Friends at
the Vancouver East Cultural Centre... Voyager (7pm & 9:25pm) at
the Ridge...
MONDAY 25 CiTR Alternative Night atthe Pit Pub... Oliver & the
Elements at the Yale... Mississippi Masala (7:15pm) and Salaam
Bombay! (9:30pm) at the Ridge...
TUESDAY 26 Vaqueros at the Yale... 70's Disco at the Cruel
Elephant... Eric Bogle at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre...
Mississippi Masala (7:15pm) and Salaam Bombay! (9:30pm) at the
Ridge...
WEDNESDAY 27 CiTR Hot Wednesday at the Pit Pub... The
Detonators with D.C. Beggars and Oliver Twisted at the Cruel Elephant... Jack Duncan & Shango Ashe at the Glass Slipper... Vaqueros at the Yale... Europa, Europa (7:15pm) and Uranus (9:30pm)
atthe Ridge...
THURSDAY 28 CiTR Alternative Night atthe Pit Pub... Swell Prod
with Mexican Power Authority and Laughing Stock at the Cruel
Elephant... Tonal Vision at the Glass Slipper... Bel-airs at the Yale...
Europa, Europa (7:15pm) and Uranus (9:30pm) at the Ridge... Vancouver Youth Theatre's Canadian Stories at the Vancouver East
Cultural Centre...
FRIDAY 29 Between the Lines at the Glass Slipper... TAD with The
Pasties and Dancing On Glass at the Cruel Elephant... Bel-airs at
the Yale... R4B Allstars, Powder Blues Band, Night Train Revue at the
Commodore... Jazz Butcher at the Backstage (Seattle)... Wayne's
World (7:30pm) and This Is Spinal Tap (9:25pm) at the Ridge...
Vancouver Youth Theatre's Canadian Stories at the Vancouver East
Cultural Centre...
SATURDAY 30 Coat Cooke & the Evolution at the Glass
Slipper... Rattled Roosters and the Cromson Seeds at the Cruel
Elephant... Bel-airs at the Yale... Wall Street at the Commodore...
Wayne's World (7:30pm) and This Is Spinal Tap (9:25pm) at the
Ridge... Vancouver Youth Theatre's Canadian Stories at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre...
SUNDAY 31 Kokoro Dance & Kane/Tayler Explosion at the Glass
Slipper... Sumalao at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre... Wayne's
World (7:30pm) and This Is Spinal Tap (9:25pm) al the Ridge...
Normal at the Cruel Elephant...
Treefrog at 86 Street...
Gypsalero at the Glass Slipper...
Liz Mandeville with the Demons
at the Yale... Voyager (7pm &
9:25pm) at the Ridge .
T-SHIRTS OF THIS AD, 100% COTTON, XL, BLACK OR WHITE,   </>
him hail-luliah good news praise him halleluliah GOOD NEWS!!!
FREE SNOT OF JESUS
BOOGERS OF OUR LORD & MESSIAH
SCIENTIFIC FACT! J§_ BIBLICAL PROOF!
JESUS
"CHRIST"
LORD OF
LORDS!
SCIENCE PROVEN! SCRIPTURAL PROOF!
SEND FTVE DOLLAR LOVE GIFT TO
INTERNATIONAL SECULAR ATAVISM
IN CANADA- P.O. BOX 1776 STN.'A" VANCOUVER, B.C. V6C-2P7 |u
IN U.SA: P.O. BOX 69243, PORTLAND,   OREGON, 97201
SCIENTIFIC FACT! SCEEN-TERRRIFFIC FACT!!! SCIENCF
iOOS$ S3dVl iOSlV - H31VH3S HO 'MOVH1 'ftinz IV HO
30 U^^ourFT^M  records
Z Monday to Wednesday 10:30-7:00
LU Thursday and Friday 10:30-9:00
QL Saturday 10:30-6:30
0 Sunday 12:00-6:00
1869 W4th Avenue. Vancouver. BC
604-738-3232
MORE     COOL     STOFF     FROM     ZULU
Pavement
® Slanted and Enchanted
Okay, so we advertised it two months ago, it didn't come in. we have
egg on our face. Hey look, they told us it would be available early in
March. So it turns out to be late April!
Welt it's here now. and in our opinion it sounds like "The-Fall-meets-
The-Pixies-meets-The-Velvet-Underground". One ofthe choice
releases ofthe yean on Matador Records. IMPORT
Godflesh
• Pure
Straight from England's legendary Earache label comes Godfleshs
newest release. "Pure". Previous albums "Streetcleaner" and
"Slavestate" pegged Godflesh as the flagbearers ofthe grindcore
movement. A pulverising assualt on the senses. IMPORT
L7
® BricksareHeavy
Reigning queens ofthe foxcore world. L7 have just unleashed their
major label debut. "Bricks are Heavy". Long one of LA's top live draws.
their previous SubPop release set the stage forthis. their
much-anticipated breakthrough release on Warner Brothers.
only...
14.98 cd
9.98 cass
sale prices in effect until May 31,1992
Victim's Family
® The Germ
A new release on San Francisco's infamous Alternative Tentacles
label. This rockin' groove-oriented hardcore album was produced in
Vancouver by Rob Wright and Cecil English. Wailing stuff! IMPORT
Seaweed
® Weak
On Sub-Pop. a brand spanking new release from these young pups.
Someday you 11 thank us for getting you hooked on "the weed".
IMPORT
ManicStreet Preachers
® Generation Terrorists
Readers of Britain's music mags can't help but notice this year's
newest sensations. The Manic Street Preachers. Their cock-sure
attitude and "rebel rocker" stance will ensure that their May 4
Graceland show will attract (insert your name here). An 18-song debut at
an exceptional price!   .
♦*rt*M__* Hardrock Miners In-Store Performance!
NEWS
FLASH
Til
3PM - Thursday. May U • Don't dare miss it
Performing songs from their new album "The Final Frontier"
(on sale for 14.98cd / 9.98cass)
USED TARES
We've upped the ante. We have
hundreds of cassettes, mostly priced
between $2 and $5. Check out our
quality selection at a price made even
better than ever with this coupon.
- The Fine Print -
Offer only valid with this coupon.
Coupon must be presented before side is rung in.
Free tape must be of equal or lesser value.
VaUd until May 31st. 1992.
BUY 2. GET 1 FREE!
Super Price on Superchunk
From North Carolina comes Superchunk. with
their 90's twist on punk rock stylings. With the
recent release of "Tossing Seeds" (the singles
compilation) their whole catalogue is now
available on CD and cassette. Music critics
always pick Superchunk high on their lists,
and so does the friendly Zulu staff.
•No Pocky For Kitty
•(self-titled)
14,98cd
9.98cass