  MIMT/LOOKOUT MIGHT
TH6 SMGGIBRS
PANSY DIVISION
6R00VI6 0HOULI6S
PUOTAM0
MAOW
FRIPAY MAY 3RP
©ASTOWN MUSIC HALL
MM
,f?**s\ I
MAOWAAiV  GROOVIE GHOULIES
"THE IMF0R6IVIMS S0UW7S OF..." "WORt-C 40KTMT PAY"
SUMMER!
AW COM
VU0TM6 "THE MESSAGE" 7"
AMP OTHER SURPRISES
SPECIALLY   PRICED   AT  THE   SEYMOUR   STREET
*i O U R    STREET,    DOWNTOV editor
dylan griffith
productlon manager
sophle hamley
art director
kevtn pendergraft
graphic design/layout
ken paul, dytan grifflth,
kent matheso
promotion meager
eophie hamley
production assistant
krista peters
miko hoffman
sophle hamley
distribution
matt steffieh
us distribution
brian wieser, ben la
quadra
llnda scholten
computer savloure
*"996by*h-**Sh*-
i* Radio Soci.ly of Hi* Uni-
sily ot British Columbia. All
fits r-s.rv.d. Circulation 17,
Subscriptions, payable in ad-
ice, to Canadian residents
■ $15 for on. year, to resi-
,fsof th. USA are SI 5 USD;
$24 CON  .Is.wh.r..  Singl.
$2.00 (to covor post-
ago, of courso).   Ploaso mak.
chocks or money orders pay-
DiSCORDER Magazino.
 .1 Copy d.adline for
sue is May 15th. Ad
Slh a
ings, photographs i
■chad material.  Mc
jntil ^
d by
UBC   I
is proforr.
.angl.y
i, CiTR
B.llingh.
bo hoard at 101.V rm as
as through all major co-
rystoms in tho LoworMoin-
I, oxcopt Shaw in Whito
Rock. Call Hi* CiTR DJ lino at
822-24S7, our office at 822-
3017 ext. 0, or our news and
at 822-3017 ext.
2. Fax us at 822-9364, e-mail
at CiTR@UNIXG.UBC.CA, visit
ir   web    site   at   hflp://
«vw.ams.ubc.ca/citr or just
ck up a goddamn pen and
write #233-6138 SUB Blvd.,
B.C. CANADA '"~
May 1996 - #160
die-cover
Who would ever guess that the cherubic
youths -gracing this month's cover are
actually Vancouver's reigning kings of Satanic speed-metal? Well, it's true. Andrew
Dennison snapped this rare shot ofthe
Sparkmarker boys sans leather ware and
feathered hair; Ken Paul took cane of the
graphic stylings.
die-contents
NARDWUAR vs. BILL KAYSING
KEN HEGAN
TEN FOOT POLE
THE WEDDING PRESENT
THE STINKIES
SP@RKM(@RKER
Vancouver special
between the lines
7"
real live action
under review
charts
on the dial
datebook
velvets christian comic
[QQ%
printed in canada
6
&
10
11
12
15
4
15
21
22
24
26
2&
29
30
contact:mork.phone.fax.604.872.1403.e-mail atomos&direcf.ca     »
SLAY YOU!
ON SALE THIS MONTH:
SCRATCH MOP-UP!
VA - SIDEREAL REST CD
BUGSKULL - Snakland LP/CD
PORK QUEEN - Strang CD
SUPERCONDUCTOR" Bastardson$ $14.92 double LP/CD
MAN OR ASTROMAN" Experiment Zero  $9.87 LP $14.92 CD
POLVO ° Exploded Drawing $13.81 2LP(limited) $14.92 CD
GAUNT o   Kryptonite $9.87 LP/cass $14.92 CD
UNWOUND • Repetition $9.87 LP $12.93 CD
PROPOGANDHI 4ess Talk, More Rock $9.87 LP/cass $14.92 CD
OLYMPIC DEATH SQUAD < Blue $9.87 lp $14.82 cd
MECCA NORMAL ■ The Eagle and Poodle $9.87 lp$I4.92 cd
SONE ■ Holiday and Sports $14.92 2 LP/CD
RICHARD DAVIES" tw. N«er Been _ crowd uke T/m $10.96 LP $1193 CD
SUN CITY GIRLS" 330,003 Crossdressers $19.95 dble CD
PROPELLER-Rame CD
The world is embracing these....how about you
happening kids, Vancouver?! Available at the finest
stores everywhere...If your favorite store does't
have it, (ire bomb it. Just kidding.
SCRATCH PRESENTS
us____-
TO LIVE AND SHAVE IN LA
with special guests MONOTRON
and LESLIE Q
8:00 PM, Saturday May 4 at Scratch
$500 in advance, $6.00 @ door
Vancouver, PC   Canada   V6» 1E1
PH: 687-6355 • FAX: 687-04881
3  n^mrn Vancouver
special
LOCAL DtRT
It appears the rumours weren't true: Sister Lovers
have not and will not be signed to Mint Records,
contrary to reports ifiat surfaced here a few months
ago...word from the grapevine says thatNettwerk's
Rose Chronicles are presently without a drummer or bassist, and have been trying out replacements... The Gate is a new venue that you'll undoubtedly start frequenting. It's run by the same
person who used to book for the Treehouse Lounge,
and is located on Granville Street where the Maximum Blues Pub used to be.. As you read this, Music West '96 will have already started. Some
bands who've never played here before that I'd like
to recommend you see include Radioblaster and
Len from Toronto, as well as Download, who'll be
performing at the Penthouse The most anticipated
performance will undoubtedly be Sloan's rumoured
show at the Stereolab gig on May 4lh at the Commodore... Music Waste is also well underway by
now, with shows at a growing number of venues.
Perhaps one of their biggest coups was bringing
the Niagara onside after MusicWest shows had
already been scheduled there. Bands set for that
venue were subsequently re-booked elsewhere. The
headaches continue for Music W°st as Waste grows
in popularity. Locals Knock Down Ginger and their
manager Dan Cimazoni (events coordinator at
Musicwest) have parted ways for the time being
due to 'conflicting viewpoints' which seem to have
originated in KND's support of Music Waste, where
they'll be playing this year, new cds are out now
by Shindig semi-finalists Knockin' Dog as well as
a compilation by the Scratch Record Label, entitled
Surreal Rest and including tracks by Pork Queen,
Good Horsey, Thinking Fellers Union Local
282 ond others. Sparkmarker's Sub Pop 7" is
set to be out on May 7th In related news, the band
will be performing a series of weekend shows
throughout the summer as part of the "No Glove,
No Love Tour". Conceived by local activist/scenester
Meegan Maultsaid, whose band Puncture will also
be playing, the aim of the tour is "to promote awareness and education around youth and HIV issues".
OiMO R&/t£WS
Not much time this month. Can only quickly jot down
muddled thoughts with the inevitable result of creating more confusion Too bad 'cause there's so much
good shit out there these days. Like Stratochief,
the newest band to feature CiTR alumnus Paula Spurr
(nee Rempel) on guitar ond vocals. Lotsa motorcycle references, obviously. And a surprising number
of songs with sweet (meaning on-key) harmonizing
between Paula and Naomi Sider, the other vocalist, whose brother Mike plays bass. And speaking
of brothers, isn't that ex-Cannon Heath Down guitarist Jon  Brotherton  slapping  the  skins  for
Stratochief? Well, oil my hog! I guess now I have to
mention the other guy, guitar player John
Antonopoulos, who has a name with four o's in it.
Anyway, they rock hard but not too hard, they don't
wanna get hassled by the man, and they have songs
like "Tom Jones" ("I'm really proud of my voice"),
"Withdrawal", "Am Not", and "She Shoots She
Scores" that stick in your head like a Valiant in second gear.
Perfect segue for my next pick, the two song
tape from Bug, whose guitarist lain Ross drives a
'Cuda (I've seen "im). Mr. Ross has been in all sortsa
bands, going back to Civil Service in ihe early '80s,
and also including Curious George and The Young
Adults Other axeologistDave Badanic has been in
a million bands himself, like Dirt and, at present,
the Touch & Gos. Maybe you, dear reader, should
check your journal because even you might have
even been in a bond with ot least one of Bug Like
Stratochief, they have a fondness for motorized
vehicles, probably working on them in their
backyard when not cranking out the gritty rock that
Bug specialize in Skateboards are also on the
agenda, although I guess that's nothing new; I
betcha any band playing live in town on a Welfare
Wednesday has a least a couple guys with decks
in the band. Brian and Joe of DOA (and, in the
latter case, the Green Party!) throw their two cents
in, giving their Punk Rock Daddy blessing to the
Bug project. There! I've spent so much space on
the grotty details surrounding the band thot I don't
even have to talk about the music. I'm getting good
at this stuff.
The other two bands I'm gonna talk about don't
fret about their wheels so much, opting instead to
spend their time blowing dust off their grandparents' wax collections for inspiration The Colorifics,
who were mentioned several months ago as a band
who had sent a fucked-up tape in to CiTR, have
been vindicated by getting the cassette repro tidied
up and revealing to the world that their silky smooth
lounge stylings don't resemble the mess that was
the first pressing of Guilty Pleasures Gosh durn this
new-fangled technology. They run, or should I say,
fox-trot, the gamut between high-energy jitterbug
jive to elevator-ready tapiocacore that sounds like
Julie London jamming with Wes Montgomery. Territory previously covered by the J.D.s, and the
Wildroot Orchestra before that, but the Lincoln
Clarkes-named quartet concentrate less on the
mamba and more on the martini, less hully-gully
and more hubba-hubba, less retro and more reefer
And Dino never said "fuck off" in any of his numbers the way Lindsey Davis croons it.
Finally, also a bit of a throw-back are the
Molestics, whose second recording pleased the
band themselves so much they released it to the
unsuspecting world. Alternating between Satchmo
stylin's and Weillion warcries, the Mos rise out of a
dinosaurian ooze doing a tap dance on your whiskey-spinning pate Only the Jades remember some
of these tunes, and they ain't talkin'. They update
the lyrics somewhat, like where "Now's the time to
Fall in Love" becomes "Now's the Time to be a bum"
because "smack's a lot cheaper" Live they're a hoot,
switching instruments they're too drunk to play anyway, and singing in French not because it's an official language but because they know their
archaeological antics are wasted on us Wet Coasters. This stuff is downbeat all the way, the kind that
keeps you swingin' silly until the Depression hits.
ALL-AGCS SHOWS
Saturday, May 4th: Soldiers of Misfortune,
Pipebomb, the Insipids, Dog Eat Dogma & the Dunderheads at the St. James Community Square
Saturday, May 4th: Trish Kelly, Amber Dawn,
Justin McGrail & Gary Ersatz at the Talking Stick (Spoken Word)
Saturday, May 4th: Slar
Spiderbait & Hip Hop Mec
Saturday, May 4th (hmm, I'm beginning
todetect a pattern here): Bad Religion, Dance
Hall Crashers & Unwritten Law at the Plaza of
Nations
Sunday, May 5th: Slam City Jam w/Minorily,
North American Bison & ten days late at the Pla2
of Nations
K Write us @ Mint for your free Mint Mall Mailorder Catalogue!
_, j)t! MINT RECORDS, INC. #699-81 0 W. Broadway Vancouver, BC V5Z 4C9
V^C^" phone (604) 669-MINT • fax (604) 669-6478 • email mintrand@aol.com
4     MAY 1996 coushead   chronicles
there are places i refuse to go. places that are reflective of my past in one
way or another, be it good or bad, but usually these places conjure up images
of things gone wrong, certain areas of the city are off limits as far as i'm
concerned, or at lesat for certain moments in time it's best to avoid these
areas until the dust has settled, certain coffee shops and restaurants, hotels and bars, even certain cities in the u.s. are now off limits, and it's all
about my heart, an organ in my body that i sometimes feel was put there not
to keep me alive but to cause me great pain, the heart is a strange place
sometimes, the blood that courses through it has very little to do with the
way we feel because of it. the way it can jump into our throats and choke us.
the way it pounds, sometimes in the middle ofthe night we can hear it beating and the pounding in our ears is seemingly enough to break, the silence of
the night as we lie in bed trying to sleep, and even if we try and want it to
happen there's no stopping it. all the clutching of our chests won't make it go
away, but this really isn't about my heart, really, it's not. it's about the hearts
of others, the hearts buried deep in the chests of those i know, i wonder
what's in some of them, some, i know are filled with a blackness that i could
never help them get rid of. while others are so full of life that i can only wonder
what it's like to have a heart that alive, and i wonder about the people i've had
something to do with and how i've made their hearts feel, love and hate and
sadness, your heart feels them all. i feel sometimes like my own heart is
becoming blackened with time but i still hold out hope that there will be a
turning point that will change all that, the light at the end of the tunnel is
the carrot i'm chasing right now. i suppose the point to all of this is the way
your happiness may affect someone else's heart, it's unfortunate when your
happiness affects others in a negative way. but what can you do? live your life
for the benefit of others or stay your own course? shit, i don't know, it could
be that i'm listening to too much 'son volt' lately, damn that jay farrar.
gth
MYUBL
1996 CHAMPIONS!
SKg°2e__Qhell
The winners of the 1996 Misspent
Youth Underground Bowling
League, Team Discorder Hell.
Kevin"headpin" Pendergraft
Mark "poodle" Pilon
Chris "gutterball" Buchanan
Ken "turkey" Paul
...and if someone added the scores
wrong, sorry, we're not giving the
title back.
byQ bye
sophtel!
BlPOtfttl
Sophie Hamley has been
holding this pathetic magazine together for a year
now, how will we ever pull
off the next issue?
Good Luck, we'll miss you!
-Your friends at CiTR and
Discorder.
S    £8^°2K^ Nardwuar™: For years. Bill, I've heard the
rumour that Disney faked the moon landing.
Now you're here, Mr. Kaysing, to prove it's true,
aren't you? R.E.M. sang, "If you believe they put
a man on the moon" - you're here to prove it,
aren't you, Mr. Kaysing?
Bill Kaysing: I'm here to prove that no man has ever
landed on the moon.
Bill Kaysing, can you give your background of
your involvement in the space programme and
what the official government line is about people
landing on the moon?
I was for seven years head of technical publications
for the Rocketdyne Research Department at the
Propulsion Field Laboratory in the Sinn Hills, near
Kenoga Park, California. During that time I had top-
secret clearance and Atomic Energy Commission
(A.E.C) clearance and I was in on all of the top secrets
about the development of Mercury and Gemini and, of
course, Atlas, and, eventually, Apollo. And my experience as a technical writer led me to believe that a lot of
the things that the aerospace industry and N.A.S.A.
preferred to have done were never done. They were
not as successful as they pretended to be. [As to the
second question,] the government claims that the
reports of astronauts and photographs and some rocks
prove that we went to the moon. My feeling is that
some photos and some people who have been under
military pay or military jurisdiction all their lives and
some rocks don't prove a thing. In fact, there is so
much contrary evidence to going to the moon, such as
solar and cosmic radiation, micro meteorites, the temperature on the moon, the fact that the astronauts never
reported how magnificent the stars were or they never
showed a picture of the crater that should have been
This photo of the moon was takan
hy Apollo 16. If it was real, wouldn't
it be surrounded by stars?
have hundreds of pieces of information that any really
intelligent person could review and then decide for
themselves.
Well, particularly, Mr. Kaysing, could you just
prove it here with some little points, that we actually did not go to the moon. In your book you mention that there were no stars in the photos that
N.A.S.A. took.
That's right, and they had the most marvellous opportunity to take pictures of all the stars in the universe
visible from the moon. I've talked to a number of top-
level astronauts, both locally and elsewhere, and they
say that the astronauts would have been overwhelmed
by the sight of trillions of stars, not to mention Jupiter
and Saturn and the other planets and so forth, but not
one picture has ever come back from the alleged trip to
the moon showing the stars in all their magnificence,
nor do any of the astronauts comment on the stars.
They completely ignore it. It would be like going to
Niagara Falls and talking about the hamburger you ate.
Doesn't NA.S.A. say that the reason there were no
stars is because their cameras weren't set for the
proper exposure, isn't that their line?
That's their line and that's pure baloney. I've talked
to photographic experts who say that N.A.S.A. have
all the money in the world to have a camera that
would have taken magnificent pictures of stars. But
there's a little problem, you know, the temperature on
the moon is 250°F during the lunar day. A friend of
mine put some film in an oven and ran it up to 250°F
and the film just curled up. If you notice, the
Hasselblad camera is worn outside of the astronaut's
suit and it is not curled in any way. That camera would
have heated up to the temperature to bake cookies in
a very short time, because the sun on the moon is
absolutely relentless, there's no atmosphere to mitigate the heat of the sun. So it's obvious that the pictures that they brought back were not taken on the
moon, nor could they have actually taken any pictures
on the moon, even if they had gone there.
If the moon landing was faked, how come they didn't include stars in their studio?
They could not fake the stars and maps because there
are too many astronomy buffs - and I've talked to a lot
of them - who would have measured the angularity
between stars and the position of stars behind, let's say.
the earth. No way, even with the most advanced computers, could they have created star pictures that would
have been acceptable to astronomy buffs.
Where was the moon landing faked? Somewhere
in the Nevada desert? What's the deal on that,
Bill Kaysing?
It's said that there's an area near Quebec that looks just
like the moon and that the astronauts spent some time
up there. They spent lots of time in the Nevada desert
and it looks a great deal like the moon. But here's the
kicker - there's an Air Force base near San Bernadino,
California, called Norton Air Force Base, and they
have the world's largest sound stages under tremendously efficient security. They could have easily created all of the moon sets in those sound stages and
filmed to their hearts' content.
This was in the Nevada desert.
Well, this was in Norton Air Force Base in San
Bernadino, but they could have done it in the Nevada
desert in an area called 51, which is the north-east corner of the A.E.C. base there.
They have a lot of U.F.O. stuff going on around
Area SI.
Oh yeah, 51 is a place where you don't want to be found
at all. All the guards carry submachine guns and they
are told to shoot to kill if anybody gets inside the base.
So continuing on, Mr. Bill Kaysing, author of We
Never Went to the Moon, to prove that the moon
landing was faked, you mentioned that there were
no stars in the photos that the astronauts brought
back, but also you mentioned it was impossible
for the United States of America to actually make
it to the moon at that time, that there had been
some problems, and that you were involved with
the programme at this time, so you knew about
those problems.
Oh yes. One of the major problems, ot course, was trying to get things to work in essentially an alien environment. Outer space is no picnic. You've got the Van
Allen belt around the Earth, you know, about twenty
miles up, and the Van Allen belt would probably have
cooked any astronauts who ventured into that area.
Then you've got outer space where there are billions of
micro meteorites zipping around at speeds up to
60,000 miles per hour, and these would have gone
right through the command capsule with the astronauts
in it and kept right on going.
Weren't there actual events, though, that happened
to N.A.S.A. that made them realize they couldn't
send somebody to the moon? When did N.A.S.A.
realise that it was impossible for them to send
somebody to the moon and that they would have to
fake the moon landing?
Well, initially, they realised it in 1959 when I was
privy to a study made by the Russians. The Russians
discovered that the radiation on the moon would
require astronauts to be clothed in four feet of lead to
avoid being killed. N.A.S.A. picked up on this study
and, of course, did some studies of their own about
all of the different hazards on the moon, particularly
something as benign, you might think, as temperature.
The temperature on the moon during a lunar day is
250°F. Now, trying to keep either the suits or the lunar
lander cool during that tremendous heat from a blazing sun would have been impossible because they did
not have enough air conditioning power.
Well, Bill Kaysing, what I don't understand is, if
N.A.SA. realised they couldn't put a man on the
moon in 1959, what about those astronauts who
died in 1967 on the launch pad? Did N.A.S.A. know
that those guys were gonna die on the launch pad?
Were they sacrificed to make the space programme
more realistic?
Aah.I would say that's - you're pretty close to that. A
fellow by the name of Gus Grissom was very disenchanted with the Apollo programme and he, on the day
that he was burned to death, he hung a lemon on the
command capsule to let people know what he thought
of it. Prior to that, he made many trips to the rocket
down in Downey Plant to examine the equipment and
he realised that it wasn't going to work. A few minutes before he was burned to death, he said, hey, you
guys in the control centre, get with it. You expect me to
go to the moon and you can't even maintain telephon-
tion. Now this tells you that there were some men of
integrity who would not go along with this scam.
So you're working at the rocket place developing,
working for the space programme. You eventually
leave the space programme. At that point, did you
know that the moon landings were going to be
faked. 'Cause you said in 1959 the U.S.A. realised
they couldn't put a man on the moon, so they
started faking stuff. Why didn't you spill the
beans right then?
Well, I don't know. What motivated me to spill the
America never.
three miles. But my theory
about Gus Grissom was that he was about to blow the
whistle on the entire project and that he was murdered.
If N.A.S.A. was faking the whole moon programme,
what was going to happen to the astronauts, what
was their mission? What was N.A.S.A. trying to
achieve or prove to the public?
Well, by simulating a trip to the moon they could easily then justify the $30 billion that they spent. They
intended to get Gus Grissom, and Chaffee and White,
to actually lie about their trips to the moon, just hke
Armstrong and Aldrin and all the other astronauts here
lied about their trips to the moon. I call astronauts who
allegedly landed on the moon bald-faced liars, and particularly Alan Shephard.
Why is that?
Well, Alan Shephard is one of these particularly obnoxious people. After Grissom was murdered, he refused to
help Grissom's wife, Betty Grissom, get a settlement
from N.A.S.A and from North American Aviation,
which she held responsible. And Shephard didn't
approve of this at all. He said that we should accept the
deaths of astronauts and you don't need any money.
Did N.A.S.A. kill those astronauts in 1967, did they
kill them on purpose because they knew too much?
Or was it actually an accident that happened?
No, it was no accident, they murdered them. You see,
I found out just recently that whenever N.A.S.A. was
in trouble they would call on the C.I.A. Now we all
know that the C.I.A.
has and can kill anybody they want without any feeling of
: whatsoev-
• ••
beans was a young man from the Vietnam wars by the
name of John Grant. He said that he was sent to
Vietnam to kill people with no good reason and he also
got a heroin habit, and he says, "Bill," he says, "what
want you to do is blow the whistle on this rotten, cor
nipt government." He says, "Why don't you say something outrageous, like, we never went to the m<
So I attribute my interest in this project to John Grant.
If the moon landings were faked, why did they
tinue faking the Apollo flights?
Well, the plan was to have something like eight or
ten Apollo flights to the moon and they had been
given the money to build all the vehicles to do it,
and they felt obligated to carry on with the simulation. But remember this: by the end of Apollo 12
people in America, possibly elsewhere, were completely bored with the project. So what they thought
they would do, and did, was they would create a
cliffhanger. And Apollo 13, which didn't happen at
all, despite the movie, was simply a simulation
inside of a simulation to get people's interests back
into the space programme.
Apollo 13 was totally faked.
Totally faked. It never left the earth.
The movie that was up for nine Oscars™ never
even happened.
It never even happened.
Weil, why did they keep faking the Apollo flights, I
still don't understand. Did the Soviet Union know it
Nardwuar™ vs.
American lunar landing?
er. So it's my feeling that the C.I.A. was hired by
N.A.S.A. to very adroitly kill Grissom, Chaffee and
White.
Let's get a timeline here, Bill Kaysing. You're working here with Rocketdyne, on the space programme...
I was working on the space programme from 1957 to
1963.
With probably a lot of ex-Nazis from the Ghelen
organisation, I bet
Oh, I met some of them. There were a lot of Nazis
including, of course, Werner von Braun. And an interesting sideline is that, after the Apollo project was
over, he completely lost interest in space travel, retired
and went to work for Grumman, then he died of cancer. This also evokes the recollection that, after Apollo
II allegedly returned to Earth, three of the leading
N.A.S.A. investigators resigned without an explana-
was faked? Why did they keep shut up if they knew
it was faked? 'Cause a lot of people would think
they kept the moon race going to prove the U.S. was
better than the Soviet Union. If the Soviet Union
knew, why did they let the U.S. get away with this?
Well, I'll tell you - at the highest levels there is a coalition between governments. In other words, the Soviets
said, if you won't tell on us - and they faked most of
their space exploration flights - we won't tell on you.
It's as simple as that. See, what Apollo is, is the beginning of the end of the ability of the government to
hoodwink and bamboozle and manipulate the people.
More and more people are becoming aware in the U.S.
that the government is totally and completely public
enemy number one.
Let's get a little bit more into the proving part of
We Never Went to the Moon, Bill. You mentioned
that there was no crater beneath the lunar lander.
What's the significance of that?
The significance is that the lunar lander engine developed 10,000 pounds of thrust. I've seen many, many
rocket engines of that capability in action and they are
so powerful that they will move giant rocks across the
canyon. A 10,000 pound thrust engine would have dug
a hole right down to bedrock and it would have stirred
up an enormous cloud of dust, and that never appeared
in any of the so-called films that they took of the lunar
landing. So, the absence of the crater in any photograph of Apollo lunar landers is actually probably the
only real proof that you need. You don't need much
beyond that and the fact that there weren't any stars.
What about the operation of the lunar module, in the
sense that it takes [dace thousands of miles above the
moon - this is what NA.S.A. says - the big explosion
that comes from the lunar module, when it lands on the
moon, it happens way up above the moon, and that's
why there's no crater. What about that explanation?
6  ,MAY 1996 Well, you know yourself that the lunar lander eventually had to, according to N.A.S.A., land on the moon.
Well, as it approached the landing point, the engine
still had to develop enough thrust to keep the lunar lander, which weighs, in lunar gravity, about 3000
pounds, they had to develop enough thrust to keep it
floating above the surface in order to let it gently land
on the surface. But that obviously was not substantiated by any crater under the lunar lander engine.
Furthermore, the radiation should have turned the
astro-not.s into crispy space bacon.
Yes, it would have. And it also would have pierced
them with thousands of m
is not a place for human beings, e
Yuri Gargarin ai the Soviet Union
Do you believe that rockets ever made orbit? Did
Surveyor or Pioneer actually happen?
Possibly. Possibly not. I'm not absolutely certain about
that. I will concede that certain unmanned vehicles
might have made it to the moon. The Russians are supposed to have sent some unmanned vehicles to the
moon. And possibly our Surveyor did land on the
moon. But units with people in them, never.
How 'bout any actual astronauts, like John Glenn,
Yuri Gargarin - were they actualloy in space?
I doubt it.
So the Soviet Union faked that Yuri Gargarin was in
space, and that dog that died, Laika. really didn't die?
Mmm...I don't think he was up there.
Atlantic, where all of the six that were launched now
reside. There were no astronauts on board. They were
hidden away carefully, to be returned, allegedly in their
command capsule, by being dumped out of a C5A
transport plane. It was easy to do all of this, because
they had total control of everything.
So they were not on the rocket when it took off,
then?
No, they were not.
And then they were picked up. Now, you talked to a
pilot who saw all this happen?
Yes, a pilot came on the air when I was doing a broadcast
and he says, "Bill, I agree with you 100%. I was flying
from San Francisco to Tokyo and I saw, along with several passengers, a command capsule dropped out of a
C5A and the red-and-white candy-striped parachutes
opened and it descended to the surface of the ocean."
And what happened then?
Well, they were picked up and put into biological suits
so they wouldn't afflict anybody with moon germs, but
my theory on that is they couldn't tell these big bald-
faced lies this early. So they were actually kept from the
press for approximately a month until they could sort of
reconcile themselves with telling a lot of big lies.
How did they make the astronauts float, Bill
Kaysing, 'cause it seems pretty convincing when you
seen them floating around there. Like, a lot of people when you say, "Hey, you know, we never went to
the moon", they went, "I saw it! I saw them floating
there! I saw them on the moon right there!"
Well, that could have been done just like they did the
Broadway play Peter Pan. In other words, [they] used
wires and suspended the astronauts from an overhead
crane and had them leap gaily across what actually was
a moon set. No, it's not difficult to show astronauts
taking big leaps, nor is it difficult, for example, to put
them in a simulated command capsule and have them
go through an anti-gravity curve.
Bill, has anybody ever seen the studio that this was
faked in? 'Cause it's in Area 51, which you alluded
to. It was also alluded to in the films Diamonds are
Forever and Capricorn Onel
Yes, that's right. They did allude to the sound stage, or
the hidden moon set. No, the reason no one has ever seen
it and come out alive is that they don't intend for anybody to see it and come out alive. You gotta remember
that N.A.S.A. is kind of a lethal organisation. Jim Irwin
- Apollo 15 - was put up to blowing the whistle
Bill Kaysing
Continuing on with reasons that we didn't make it
to the moon here - there were various lighting
whole project and he called rr
Oh, a lot of lighting anomalies. Some friends from
Europe came over recently and what they did, they're
very interested in this project, they analysed N.A.S.A.
films supposedly taken on the moon, frame by frame.
And you know what they found out?
What, Bill Kaysing, author of We Never Went to the
Shadows diverged. In other words, if you have a point
source of light, like the sun, and you can see this anytime outdoors, all shadows will parallel - telephone
sup,
stensibly to give me the facts. Few
days later he died of a heart attack.
Now what does that tell you?
Well, a lot of people died when
dissing N.A.S.A. What's the significance ofthe Barron Report?
Oh, that's profound. A man named Thomas Ronald
Barron was an inspector on Pad 34, where Grissom,
Chaffee and White were murdered. He brought forth a
500-page report on the mismanagement, the incompetence of N.AS.A. and North American [Aviation]. And
again, like Jim Irwin, a few days after he testified
before the Congressional Investigating Committee, he
was found dead in his car at a railroad crossing. Now
what does that tell you?
How much space stuff since 1959 has been real?
What space stuff is real today? Did the Challenger
blow up? Did N.A.S.A. know it would blow up?
went to the moon.
poles, trees, you name it - all the shadows will be parallel. Well, these men found, in analysing frame by
frame movies, that there was more than one lighting
source for this film. Now that proves beyond any
doubt, in my mind, that these pictures, these motion
pictures, were taken inside of a movie set, using gigantic spotlights to simulate the sun. This, to me, is one of
the most significant breakthroughs, and I only learned
it about two months ago.
Did people see Apollo 11 take off?
Well, yes, certainly.
So what happened, then, if they saw it take off? The
rocket took off - if we didn't go to the moon, what
actually happened when Apollo 11 took off?
The Apollo 11 vehicle, or Saturn 5, was sent out of
people's sight, and then it was jettisoned into the South
Yeah, and you know why it blew up? Because Christa
McAuliffe, the only civilian and only woman aboard,
refused to go along with the lie that you couldn't see
stars in space. So they blew her up, along with six
other people, to keep that lie under wraps. I claim that
Christa McAuliffe was murdered.
So, who else is gonna get murdered, what else is
coming up? What's the future? What is real that's
in space that we can see out there, Bill Kaysing?
Well, I would say this, that the number of people that
believe my version of Apollo are increasing in great
numbers. So my feeling is that, within a short time, the
Apollo hoax will be exposed and that will open
Pandora's box. After that, the U.S. government is going
to be hard-pressed to keep the lies about the Federal
Reserve Bank, about the I.R.S. being the Gestapo of
America, about the fact that all silver was taken out of
circulation in 1963, the fact that Canada does not
import our meat because it's so full of rotten chemicals.
I'm sure you knew that. The Canadians are pretty
smart, because they don't import American meat. So,
you see, in this country, we're at the short end of things
because of the corruption of the government.
■:.■ :      S   :■;.   *■■:.     .*>      .';<:     •*:*. ,*:*:*
SHIIa:
mm
mm mmm     *,,a
M f
-mmm
••?•■•**::.■ ■•:.•¥•■:*.;■: :*:■     - '_'*;-■■■■
\'"?mz:m   '-/'A, a*
ten
-mmmm >
Hi-tech Sci-R???
How do you deal with people who you're trying to
convince? Isn't it like trying to convince people that
the Earth is flat? How do you distinguish yourself
with these people, Bill Kaysing?
Well, it's easy. I've got the proof. I've got the photographs, which are available to anybody. All it takes is
some study. If you look at the pictures taken of Aldrin
by Armstrong, you can find so many mistakes in those
photographs that anybody in his right mind would
realise, just by those photos alone, that they were faked.
Well, how did the media fall for this?
Well, the media doesn't fall for anything. The media is
controlled by the government. The Dutch papers on
July 21 [1969] said that the moon landing was a hoax,
was a fake, and I have been unable to find any of those
Dutch papers, although it's well documented that they
did publish information, with proof, that the U.S. was
spoofing everybody.
Didn't the National Enquirer have stuff, too?
Well, I did send some of my material to one of their
subsidiaries, called The Weekly World News, and they
did a marvellous job of presenting my material. It was
extremely accurate. So, I've been in newspapers, I've
been on Oprah Winfrey's show, and quite a number of
leading television shows.
Have you ever talked to any astronauts at all?
Oh yes. I've talked to Edwin 'Buzz' Aldrin. I was
invited to appear on CBS television in Los Angeles
with Colonel Aldrin. And they called him up, and he
wouldn't appear with me. So I called him up, and I
said, "Buzz, why don't you appear with me?" And his
exact words were, "That is something I do not want to
do," and he hung up. Now if, in reality, they had gone
to the moon, wouldn't they put me on the air with a
genuine astronaut, and let me debate with him. You've
got to remember, too, that Neil Armstrong has not
given more than three interviews since he allegedly
returned from the moon. A friend of mine went to see
him, to question him, and he not only refused to talk to
him, he said, "If you hang around my farm much
longer, I'll call the police." Now, here's the most
famous man ofthe twentieth century, Neil Armstrong,
allegedly set foot on the moon, July 21, 1969 - why
won't he talk about it?
Maybe he's just tired of talking about it.
No, he couldn't be tired of talking about it, because
it's his duty and obligation to be a national hero. He
took N.A.S.A.'s money, he was supported by the government for many, many years, and here he is in a position of, let's say, talking about Apollo in a very
convincing way, but he won't talk at all. Now, he lives
on a farm in Ohio, near Columbus. Anybody can find
his address and go see him.
Is there any way of going to the Smithsonian in
Washington and looking at the stuff and seeing that
it is fake?
Oh, yeah. One of my friends went to the Smithsonian and
he measured the exit door of the lunar lander and found
out that astronauts wearing their life-support systems
could not have gone out that door, they were too big.
Are there any other points that we haven't [covered] here today, Bill Kaysing, about not making to
the moon, more proof?
Well, I think we've covered the very important general
ones. There are a lot of details. For example, Edwin
Aldrin, when he came back from his alleged trip to the
moon, wrote a book called Return to Earth. Well, I've
read the book three times, and in it we find a man who is
trying desperately to tell the truth, but he's unable to. In
other words, they put the wraps on him, they told him,
don't ever talk about the moon as a fake. But an interesting thing happened to Aldrin when he was speaking at
Edwards Air Force Base to some of his fellow pilots, he
was asked by a TV interrogator, "What was it like to be
on the moon7' And Edwin Aldrin at that point could not
answer that question, he began shaking and trembling, he
walked off the stage into an alley and later got drunk.
Now, if you'd done something, honestly and truthfully,
you can talk about it without any problems. Well, it was
obvious that, here was an occasion when Aldrin could
not tell that lie one more time.
Have you been threatened at all, Bill Kaysing?
Oh, death threats and letters with skull and crossbones
on them. I've been called a Commie sympathiser, a
traitor to the United States. Many things have happened to me. One time I was on KOME radio doing a
three-hour show, and half-way through the show
someone dropped napalm on the transmitter in the
Gilroy Hills. They wanted to cut our story off. Police
came, they offered us police protection, and KOME
was off the air for three days until they could repair a
quarter of a million dollars', damage.
Boy, Americans really care about the moon landing, don't they?
Oh yeah. It's like Pearl Harbour - they managed to
cover up the truth at Pearl Harbour since December 7,
1941. Everybody that was in W.W.II, including me,
knows that the Japanese were set up to do it. In fact,
some people told me that two shiploads of gold were
sent to Japan to finance Pearl Harbour, they were sent
by the British. So the British wanted us involved in the
war and Pearl Harbour seemed like a good way to do it.
So the Americans bribed the Japanese into bombing Pearl Harbour?
Yes, and Roosevelt not only knew about the attack, he
helped arrange it, and he suppressed the information
about the Japanese attacks from Kimmel and Short,
the naval and army commanders at Pearl Harbour. This
was one ofthe biggest hoaxes perpetrated by the U.S.
government to get us involved in a deadly war. There's
no question that it was all set up.
If people want to get a hold of you, Bill Kaysing,
what is your address?
P.O. Box 832, Soquel, CA, 95073 and I would be
happy to correspond with Canadians about these subjects at length.
Why should people care about the moon landing,
Bill Kaysing, why should people care that the moon
landing was faked?
Well, I think we should care because it proves that the
U.S. government is just a body politic of lies and falsehoods. They have been for many, many years on all of
the important subjects. Social Security is bankrupt, the
food in America is all weak poisons, people are put
under the thumb of the I.R.S. There are so many things
wrong with the U.S. Now, don't get me wrong, I don't
dislike the people - it's the government that I call public enemy number one.
Anything else you'd like to add to the people out
there?
Well, I'll say this - whether you believe my story or
not, go to the library in your spare time and take a look
at some N.A.S.A books and study the photographs, use
your own intelligence to analyse them and see that
they could not have been taken on the moon. That's
the number one proof.
Alright, Bill, keep on rocking in the free world and
doot doodle oot do-
What's that?
Bill, doot doodle oot do -
Ha, ha - whatever. I'll take it easy.
No, doot doodle oot do -
Doot do. Ih
I Vancouver writer/ac tor/director/film-maker
extraordinaire and all-round Great Guy Ken
Hegan has won acclaim, the best short film
award from the New York Underground Film Festival
and a new pair of shoes (from the N.Y.U.F.F. - and,
no, he wasn't able to choose the style) for his first
film, Farley Mowat Ate My Brother, which is eight
minutes of audiovisual excellence. Hegan spent one
year as a contributor to CBC Radio's Brand X
between 1993 and 1994, he has written two feature-
length screenplays and he has been on CBC TV's
Zero Avenue for two seasons. He has also won
awards for articles he's written for the Vancouver
Sun, particularly an affectionate piece on Douglas
Coupland, and is on the verge of introducing the
world to his latest opus, fhe short filmW/7//am Shatner
Lent Me His Hairpiece. Hegan recently received
notice in the New York Times for his flair for titles,
and also for his talent, which is likely to take him to
places no CBC alumnus has even been before.
DiSCORDER: What was it like to win the N.Y.
Underground Film Festival?
Ken Hegan: Well, when I first got o phone call, just to tell me lhat I
wos in the festival, ihe festival director Ed Halter said, "Ken, we love
your little movie, but none of us have any idea who the hell Farley
Mowat is here - none of us." So, hopefully, I've helped his career out
a little bit. But it was cool, I got a mention two days in a row in the
New York Times, which is a big coup They spelled my name wrongly, so then, of course, they had to do the correction the next day.
Those corrections, they work well.
Oh, errata, I love ya.
For fhe people who may not have seen the film, Ken,
can you just take us through the storyline.
I'd be glad to It started off as radio play that I wrote for Brand X
and essentially it's sort of a mockumentary in the grand Canadian
tradition of documentaries. I find that a lot of the films that come out
of Canada are very serious, ponderously serious, so I thought it'd
be fun to just have shots of me in a recording studio, very moody
lighting, as I relate this tale I'm dressed in a tuxedo or, sorry, a
funeral suit - I've just come from the funeral of my dear, departed
brother Tony, who has perfect skin. And, in flashback, I tell the tale
of Farley Mowat - I basically talk about him as a young boy, how
he had a premature beard and all the other kids would mock him
and pull his beard. Over time, Farley becomes quite bitter and he
moves north, to the northern tundra, where he writes book after boring book - he won't stop So finally, my brother Tony - the one with
perfect skin - writes a letter to Farley saying, "Enough! You tortured
me as a child, you're torturing my child as a child, and we're just
tired of having to do book reports on your stupid books Don't write
any more books!" So Farley hears about this, and he invites Tony
north for a chat, and that's the last that I see of my brother. Naturally,
I assume Farley Mowat ate my brother. I soon find out that indeed he
has: an Inuit boy goes through Farley's trash, steals the perfect skin of
my dead brother, tans it, and makes a drum out of it and ends up on
MuchMusic. I discover this and decide, that's it Farley, enough! So,
of course, revenge will be mine. I assemble a dog sled team of ragtag teddy bears led by this one dog and venture north [where] there's
a big climactic battle and Farley mutates into a wolf.
A protected species in Canada.
And therefore I cannot kill him I think it's a protected species - I took
a little liberty there. So, of course, Farley gets awoy and we're left in
ihe studio, me shivering as I say, "Yes, I'm still scared" - something
like that. "Slill terrified and I still shudder at the sound of a far, distant
howl, however, I never cry wolf." It's just a big groaner at the end.
Ken Hegan _3£r
writer
Well, I have seen the film and I can guarantee that it's
most amusing.
It doesn't suck.
It doesn't suck - I still chuckle over the ending with
Farley turning into a protected species. Will there be
anywhere else for people to see the film?
Yeah, ihe Knowledge Network is interested. I actually work part-time
out at the Knowledge Network and I have friends in acquisitions
there. I've played this for ihem over and over and they go, that's
great, you know, funny little thing. I give them constant updates on
how I'm doing - I'm really annoying lhat way - plus I steal their ideas
for my next scripts, too. But, anyway, within an hour of telling everyone that I'd won this surprise award in New York, wilhin an hour I'd
had an offer from Knowledge Network. So, I guess, if you make it in
New York, you make it anywhere First we take Manhattan, then we
take Burnaby Oh, and as far as boosting Farley's sales, I actually
met Farley Mowat when I went up to the Gemini Awards. It was
pretty cool. Farley, of course, has a game room, like a hunter's
room, but he cares so much about animals he doesn't have real
heads, he has a papier mache zebra head, a tiny little wooden elephant head, and of course a little white wolf hand puppet, too. I
think it's every Canadian's birthright to meet Farley Mowat; so if you
need an introduction, I'll be the man to get you in touch.
Where did the idea for the film come from? How did
you happen upon Farley as your subject?
Well, I always come up with the titles for these first - title first, script
later, and then cheesy acting by me and whoever else I can con
into acting it later. My master plan for this one was, at first, Pierre
Trudeau Ate My Brother But he was getting far too much press - it
just didn't seem right. So, I've got an e-mail list of about 50 hooligans, I call them, and I send out ideas and then shamelessly exploit
them for theirs. It had to be a famous Canadian - I just wanted the
Canadian content there - and we were bouncing around Robertson
Davies and Margaret Atwood, Pierre Berton, of course, the usual
gang of suspects, and then Farley Mowat came up and I was sold.
Can you just imagine Farley's beard, my brother's bones and gristle
hanging off his lips, and he's just this nutter - if you ever see Never
Cry Wolf, the guy who plays him - well, I guess this actually happened when Farley went north to be with the wolves, to understand
the wolves - he took off all his clothes and ran around naked, peeing and marking his territory. So I knew Farley was a natural.
I wanted to tell everyone about your next venture,
which is in the - final editing stages?
Early editing stages, but the production has all been shot and we just
log into the tapes and we're laughing at the footage right now.
And it is called?
William Shatner Lent Me His Hairpiece.
nes even with his cloned self. My scrip
:elebrity to stalk me (while I'm mindinc
and Shatner/Kirk is the ultimate man o
, hey, he loves to hump. So he's c
And how did you arrive
at Shatner as a subject?
Well, his hairpiece, first of all.
No, really - I chose Shatner as
my target because, first of all,
he's Canadian but, unlike
Farley, is recognized worldwide. That was important.
Audiences immediately understand who the hell is lending
me his wig. Second, I get the
feeling Shatner takes himself
wayyyyyyyyy too seriously.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but he
has an actor's ego. And I have
perfect    match.    Third,    as
Captain  Kirk,  he was always
getting in some kind of climactic  punchup with  some  outmatched alien and sometimes e*
required some Car
my own business, naturally) o
action. He likes the ladies ai
worthy foe. William Shatner i
So what's the story about?
William Shatner Lent Me His Hairpiece is a pure 12 minutes of
farce. Essentially, in flashback, I show images of Shatner before his
Star Trek days, as a struggling actor Disgusted with his anonymity,
Shatner exchanges his soul to a wizard who gives Shatner a magical, evil hairpiece which gives him fame and fortune. Years later, I
run into Shatner, my childhood idol, outside a sold-out Star Trek
convention I help him escape from some fans and he offers me a
reward. Cash, cars, women. I refuse them all, then ask to borrow
his hairpiece for two weeks. With it, I could be the greatest lover in
the world. He agrees, hands me the hair, and later I realize he's
handed me a dud, a fake, a decoy. Naturally, revenge will be
mine. I break into his lair, steal the real hairpiece as he sleeps, and
suddenly I'm propelled to fame, fortune and a truckload of sexual
attention. Sharner's hairpiece - The Love Rug! Shatner suffers withdrawal, comes after me, and we have a climactic battle over this
addictive, sinister hairpiece. I won't give away the ending, but one
of us is destroyed. It's quite dramatic And bound to get me sued.
Shatner baldly goes where no man has gone before. Listen, Mr.
Shatner, if you're hearing or reading this, and I know you are, I'm
just kidding, bud.
What was it like filming this veritable feast o' fun?
A ton of work. And a ton of fun. One of my favourite stories happened for a scene where a cop gives me a fifty-buck fine for looking
so good in the new hairpiece. So we needed a ticket, a parking ticket. Couldn't find a blank one, couldn't really make one lhat looked
any good, so we kinda 'borrowed' one from somebody's windshield
downtown. I think it was an extremely expensive Range Rover.
Anyway, we shot the scene, it looks great. But filming takes time
and, hours later, we go back to look for the Range Rover to put ihe
ticket back, but it was gone. So, if any of you own a Range Rover,
you might want to check to see if you owe $3000 in overdue parking fines. Sorry about that. The actor who played the cop took the
ticket back to Toronto as a souvenir. And he refuses to give it back.
So let's call that $3000 a donation to a worthy artistic cause.
Tell us about your screenplays.
Well, when I decided I wanted to be a pro writer I said, 'I'm
going to be a writer, what will make me the most money?'. And I
thought, 'a screenplay', so I wrote a screenplay. It's called Dogs
Eat Anything - sometimes it's also known as This is My
Degeneration. It's about a sperm donor, a road trip and rock'n'roll suicide...There are some good moments, but I learned to
write from doing it ond I got the gig with CBC Radio and a bunch
of articles in the Vancouver Sun as a result, ond that got me the
deal with Zero Avenue. After that I thought, well, let's get serious
about writing screenplays, so I wrote one called The Deadline,
which doesn't suck.
8     MAY 1996 Would you mind outlining the story
for us?
Good practice for my pitching workshop in the
Banff TV Festival coming up. Basically, ifie first
few scenes start off with a guy, about my age,
about my socio-economic background. This guy
happens to be an embalmer, he works in a funeral home, and he's on his way to work one day
when he gets mistaken for o serial killer. Earlier
that week he had volunteered - he just wanted to
do something for society - so he had volunteered
to portray a serial killer in a Crime Stoppers sort
of video, ond of course people think he's the serial killer and they hound him and chase him - sort
of like Scorsese's After Hours, if I can make that
incredible creative leap. And so, he gets hounded into seclusion and there he decides to support
himself by running a 1-900 phone line called the
Deadline. This is a phone line you can call if you
want to know if somebody famous is dead, and,
if so, how they died. So his ex-girlfriend and
neighbour, Natalie, just happens to accidentally
shoot a guy who's on the run from lovable yet
lethal goons who work for Lococola, this bottling
company, and it turns out lhat this guy they accidentally shoot - 'cause it happens all the time, I
accidentally shot two people this morning - anyway, they drag him inside, he forces them not to
coll the police, he's got a gun at them.
Essentially, it's an action comedy with lots of sar-
sally accessible. It's a good, fun, tight low-budget
movie and I'm hoping to shoot it this summer if I
can scrape enough 5-cent refund cans together.
But it won't be called The Deadline .because I've
realised that a good titles is everything.
Well, The Deadline's not bad. It's snappy.
But it's more of a Stallone-sounding. The
Assassins, The Deadline.
Or Steven Siegal.
So, (Somebody Famous) Stole My Deadline.
Now, you won an award for an article
you did in the Vancouver Sun about a
local literary luminary called Douglas
Coupland.
Salt of the earth. Hell of a man. He speaks for my
generation  and  yours.   I  love you,  Douglas
Coupland, I love you, man, you're my best friend,
man. I've never met him, and I loved [his] first
two books, Generation X and -
Shampoo Planet was hysterical.
Shampoo Planet was great, it had really, really
great ideas and I think he stole a lot of really
good ideas from his friends, too. But the third one,
Life After Cod, I thought ihis is getting really...I just
found that his books were getting shorter and the
print was getting larger, and so I wrote this -
And there were pictures in that book,
There we
re, lots of pi
clures
And 1
thou;
jht it was
his aim t<
3 be taken (
is o s
. A lot of
comedy,
or comedic,
writers, and
1 thir
,k he can
be quite
funny,  1 thir
*k o 1
ot of CO
med
ic writers
start belie
jving what <
slher
people ■
say.
'Oh, you
nedy, that's
grec
,t, but v
/hen
are you
going to
write some
thing
serious
.' c
omedy is
never taken seriously.
And
1 think th
as sort of
his aim, to be taken as a
don't attack the man so it
do - but I don't attack the i
an arch review where I
: literary writer
i - well, maybe
led his book
led  his
I  thoi
t the  tim
pompous statements where he spoke about our
disillusionment. I grew up pretty middle-class and
he grew up in West Van and a lot of things he
was writing about didn't speak for my generation
or anyone I knew...Anyway, I took a two-page
cheap shot at him, but I tried to be as funny as I
could and of course, I was moving at the time,
and it was the first time I decided, you know, if
this article gets published, there could be some
letters to ifie editor, there could be some rebuttals
at three in the morning if people phone me up, so
I have an unlisted number as a result. And, actually, it worked out quite well, becouse I heard he
was furious. The editor at the Sun who published
this article - ibis was in February of '94, you may
recall, there was furor for about 3 or 4 weeks, letters saying that I was evil - and anyway, the guy
who published it knows Coupland and Coupland
had invited him to the book launch on this boat, I
think it was. But he uninvited him as a result of
publishing the article, so I sort of rippled the fabric of his great success. But obviously he's gone
The   thing   that   confuses   me   about
Coupland is that he sort of decries his
whole - the way the media portrays him
as the voice of his generation but he's
quite happy to participate in numerous
photo shoots, be interviewed by the
NME, I think, and I remember there was
a photo where he's standing in this pond
with all these lotus flowers, I think...
I saw that one. It was painfully annoying. And I
found it really pretentious.
Well, I think you hit the nail on the head
there, Ken.
But he's salt of the earth. Hell of a man.
Of course. And a damn fine writer when
he chooses [to be].
Yeah, a very talented guy.  I just find his writing
kind of noodles around, he doesn't really have a
strong spine like,  say, Farley Mowat - there's a
vith spine.
Well, the thing about Life After God
seemed to be that he bought his press, in
a sense, he thought he was a messianic
figure and should carry that on.
Like Tarantino, and it's just the
i&riimfeim.
SHAKE YOUR ASS EVERY
SATURDAY NIGHT WITH DRU!
LIVE BANDS EVERY
THURSDAY NIGHT!
COVER ONLY
$2.00 AT THE DOOR
8:30 COVER STARTS
AAAY Vth
MAY 223^
AAAY 30*
BANDS START® 10:00
l||liJllJ|:niHl!lil:ltim!ll.l*tllltl|l|ti!l|l|i1|.]i1:l|M,ai Ten Foot Pole play energetic punk
rock with sensitive lyrics that people
can relate to. They hit town on
March 31, the tinal night ot the
SnoJam tour that teatured No Use
For A Name, Ten Foot Pole, Trigger
Happy, Hi-Standard, Mock, and Ten
Days Late. That rainy afternoon, we
settled into the plush surroundings of
the Commodore Ballroom ladies'
room with a congested Dennis
Jagged of Ten Foot Pole. We told
him we were interview virgins. He
told us he is an interview whore.
DiSCORDER: You were here in November
when you played a show at a community
centre that got shut down - is that a common
thing or is Canada just afraid of hardcore?
Dennis: I wouldn't say you're scared of hardcore. The reason that show got shut down
was because it was ill-organised. There were
about six bands playing and we got added
on at the last minute. Since they didn't run a
tight ship, and there wasn't a stage manager.
It's T-8hirt Time Again!
U YES I aw a pathetic little
So send me a CiTR t-shirti
I 1
NOT AVAILABLE IN ALL SIZES • PHONE 822-3017 (art. ©)-.
• (a l) • (□ xl) • (a xxl)-
Q Kelly Green Q Forest Green Q Grey
□ Navy Blue   □ Black Q  Red
□ Aspen □ White Q Yellow,
Name
Address
City
a lot ofthe bands played for longer than they
should have, or didn't take their eguipment
off the stage right away. You've got to have
a tough guy to say at that point, okay guys,
time to get off the stage. If there's nobody like
that, some guys will just take advantage of
that and just fool around and chase women
and stuff rather than moving their eauipment.
Is being fan friendly Important to the band?
No. we regularly beat up on our fans.
Actually, we try to do our best. We usually
give out free stickers after the show, and
when people write us we give them stickers in
the mail. It takes us a while to write back to
people - we get stacks ofimaii' we have so
much stuff to go through.
It must have increased a lot since signing to
Epitaph.
Oh yeah, everything's been a ibt more work/
It's been positive, in that it medins more people are interested in the band. But it's boon'.* I
lot more work too, which is one ipf the reasdfis
we kicked out the lead singer. He's a blill.
player for the White Sox, so we only got jo
play when he was off basebai which is life
two months. Plus he was married: We were in
a position where we were working all fh<*
time, answering mail and doing all the ofhei
things we do as a band. There's basically 2d'
or 30 hours of work to do a week, and toido
that and not get to play was just totally
destroying us. It just tore us apart.
Now that you're singing the lyrics that you
wrote, is playing live more emotional for you?
Yeah, it's a lot better for me now. Before. I
was writing lyrics and just handing them over
to the other singer. It really does make a difference. I used to just play the guitar and
jump around, but now I'm talking to people.
It's more coherent, I'm not just this secret
songwriter who hands it over to someone else
who sings and does all the crowd control.
What did you guys do before Ten Foot Pole?
Steve Von Treetrunk likes to call himself a fibre
maintenance engineer - he
owned his own carpet cleaning business. We call him a rug
sucker, but he likes fibre maintenance engineer. Tony
worked with rocket scientists
Actually, he delivered the mail
to rocket scientists. For a second you thought he was a real
brilliant guy. eh? I was a sound
engineer. I'm actually a City of
Thousand Oaks employee in
the stage and theatre department. Also, I used to be a partner in two coffee houses that
had punk rock bands playing
there. We had a stage and
everything. Unfortunately, punk
kids don't spend a whole lot of
money on coffee, and people
who do spend a lot of money
on fancy coffee don't like
hanging out with punk kids! So
you can see why that project
was doomed from the start. I
also work on a television show
called Punk Uprisings. I'm going
to start a new segment on the
show called 'Punk Bloopers'. If
anyone has video tapes of
their band screwing up, please
send them to Punk Uprisings at
2470 Stern Street. No. 237 Simi
Valley California 93063. It's a
good way to get your band
seen sporadically across the
States and internationally.
What about Canada?
We're trying to get the show on
in Canada, but it's difficult
because of the Canadian
Content (regulations). We get
video tapes from all over the
world and it's hard to make a
certain percentage of it
Canadian.
Why do the local Snojam shows have different lineups?
When we got to the west coast there wasn't
enough demand for just one big show, so we
split up into a bunch of small shows where No
Use For a Name would play at one show and
we'd play at another on the same date. It's a
little tougher on the west coast - there just
aren't as many kids who go to shows here as
on the east coast. In Montreal or Quebec City
we can play a show and 1200 people will
show up. It's kinda weird, Pennywise and
NOFX can draw a crowd almost anywhere,
but then there's, a lot-af in between bands like
us that can draw a crowcf ot 1200 in Montreal,
but here it's like... well. I don't know how
many tickets have been solcKhere tonight
Are there any Scared Straight songs in the set
tonight?
I don't know how many we're going to
play tonight. Since we're opening for No
Use For a Name we have to play a short
set. It's hard to pick which songs to play.
People mostly have Rev, so we play most
of the songs off Rev or the songs off our split
CD with Satanic Surfers.
Is playing a short set a drawback to touring
with so many bands?
It's a drawback because you don't get to
play a lot of your songs that people want you
play, but it's nice because it's not as much
work. I can jump around and get just as
exhausted, but condense it into 45 minutes
instead of an hour. On a headlining show. I
have to pace myself. If I get too crazy early on
in the set, I'll faint later, depending on how hot
it is on the stage and stuff like that. In Montreal,
we took a break and had a stage diving contest. If I need a break, we'll give away a free
skateboard to whoever does the best dive.
Don't you get those guys who are so happy
to be on stage that they just won't get off?
Different things happen. Sometimes we'll get
a big crowd on stage. In Belgium, there was
a big crowd and we couldn't get them off. I
was like. okay, let's have a big stage diving
contest to try and get them off and instead
what happened was more people got on
stage to join the contest.
So do you have big crowds in Europe?
In some places we're big and in some we're
not. just like here and in Montreal. We're big
in Belgium and Holland, and some parts of
Germany like us. A couple shows were pretty dead. It's hard to judge a show. It's nice
when the crowd fits the venue. If you've got
a small club and it's sold out, it's raging. It
also depends on how the kids are. One really cool thing about Europe is that people
have lower inhibitions. In the States, when
people come up they try to be tough guys,
whereas in Europe people really get funky.
To me, that's fun. when
people just hang out
and don't try to be cool.
It's pretty harsh in L.A.
It's a ceer pressure thing
too. When you've got
two people slamming, it
looks lame, but when
you get like, five going,
then everybody jumps
in. It's the same with
stage diving. We'll do a
show where no one will
stage dive, and then
one person does and
then everyone thinks,
'oh, it's cool, the security guards aren't beating
us up'.
Yeah, I think a lot of people are intimidated by
security guards.
The attitude of the security guards makes a huge
difference. In some
places, like the Spectrum
in Montreal, the security
guards have been pretty cool. A lot of people
will be crowd surfing and
getting dumped down
into the guards, ana
they actually take pride
in protecting people. It's
different in Europe
because people will
take turns stage diving.
People get the guards'
attention and then the
security guards will be
like, 'You. up!' It's really
cute. They have this
organized system and
people are like, 'Please
let me up!' and the
guards will be like, 'Okay your turn!'. Eight
years ago, they didn't see that stuff that
often. They'd see it and go apeshit - 'Oh
my God, It's anarchy!'. They'd freak out.
Nowadays it's like, 'Oh, it's a punk show.'
Not even just punk, people are doing it at
Rod Stewart. And that was one of the cool
things about punk, that egalitarian breaking down of the distinction between being
an audience member or part of the band.
When is Ten Foot Pole going to come out with
a new album?
We've been touring for five months, but
we'll be home soon and writing the new
album. We have a lot of ideas, it's kind of
half written. We just need to go through it,
hammer it out and make these ideas into
songs. It should be out in September or
October. I have no idea what we're going
to call it yet.
Dennis wanted us to tell you to you to
write them for info and stickers. Send a
S.A.S.E. to: Ten Foot Pole, P.O. Box 3237,
Simi Valley, CA, 93093.
Picture by Suki Smith
Interview by Suki Smith & Kellie Ku
/0,MAY.1996  v For over ten years The
Wedding Present Kave functioned as
one 0/ England's best kept secrets.
Indeed it would seem that singer David
Gedge has received more publicity for his
marketing abilities than his songwriting skills,
but then both avenues bear testament to his
creative genius. Teetering on the brink of commercial popularity has not affected his ability
to influence the administrators at his record
company, with his latest triumph being the persuasion of Cooking Vinyl records to buy and
offer the Austin mini that inspired the cover of
the new album as a prize in a local raffle.
Along with this clear understanding of the
principles of promotion comes the ability to
write catchy songs for anyone who's ever
been confused and heartbroken. "I just make
things up, really," Gedge explains, "I imagine
myself in certain positions and think: what
would happen, or what I would think if that
happened to me, or what if I was doing this to
someone? I'm really interested in the way people speak to each other, in what they say and
why they say it. I'm nosy, so I observe a lot of
things that happen and just write them in my
little book, and then regurgitate it into fantastic
pop songs I'm a charlatan really; in
essence I just use every one else's lyrics."
From the early days of blinding guitar riffs
and William Shatner tribute numbers, to the
moody and brooding Sea Monsters up to the
present motoring inspired Mini, the Wedding
Present sound has remained consistent only in
that it is always entertaining. "These days, the
music tends to be written first," Gedge admits,
"and then I spend ages on lyrics until it all
finally comes together properly. It's just a matter of practicality really. You can spend ages
{J ■       J. Bilan/writer I
Len Whistler/photo
on lyrics only to find that it doesn't suit the
music properly whereas now we're able to let
the chords inspire the words."
One point Gedge neglected to tell his
audience at the Town Pump several weeks
ago was the fact that he and his fellow band
mates had just traveled over 26 hours straight
from North Dakota to make it in time for their
Vancouver performance. If they were worn out
from the trip the band certainly didn't let it
show as they performed a high energy set
pleasing the crowded room full of admirers. "I
wouldn't do it if I didn't enjoy it," he says, "I
feel very inspired to do this and at the moment
if I don't get inspired I'll probably have to
stop."
Stopping, however, is not anywhere in
Gedge's immediate vision. With the current
line up including Jayne Lockey on bass, Simon
Smith on drums, and Darren Belk on guitar,
Gedge is more confident than ever in the
band's ability. When asked about the effect of
a female presence in the band, he gladly
admits that the band is "more human" than
before. "It's great, I mean I wish we had done
it years ago to be honest. It seems that sometimes men don't socially interact; it's kind of
odd really, having all men in the group for all
these years. It's much more like real life now,
we talk to one another. And also she's a really
good singer as well, cause I've got quite a
deep voice, sort of like this massive growl,
and she's got this beautiful voice, and it goes
together quite well. At the moment I'd like to
do every song with her."
Certainly the addition of Jayne to the band
has shifted the musical focus in a new direction. The shift began with the band's previous
album, Watusi, which was recorded in Seattle
and featured several local female musicians
singing back up. Jayne's role in the band
quickly escalated to what Gedge likened as a
"duo" and it appears this trend will continue
onto the next album. As time passes, the music
continues to stand on its own, with the group
shying away from the competition that seems
to plague the majority of British bands.
Indeed, the friendly, confident air Gegde
exudes seems far beyond the pettiness of the
whole British ordeal. "It is very competitive in
Britain," he admits, "It's a big game, like football or something. I've never felt that music
should be about competing, I don't care who's
group is bigger. It's personal taste really,
you're either going to like it or you're not
going to like it. At the end of the day I'd probably be doing this either way, I mean writing
songs and making records, because I enjoy
doing it. It's |ustf)o#ering that people enjoy
listening tasti,"
As the days go by more Ond more listeners
ate being turned on to the Wedding Present's
unique musicol offering. Soon tHe secret will
not be so well kept, but one thing does mHWfl
certain: if the £wwt is any indication of wfeirY
to come, the Wedding Present's musical WfOft
will remain a true one •
DEBUT AL
"A caoldron of intense vocals,
1 guitars,   inspired  bass  lines,  and
(I demonic drumming, the Pasties' sound
1 occasionally teeters on the edge of
1 grange, bot it more often stays rooted
I in teen-bcsement, hard rock sen*
sibillties — with one difference, this band has a
singer with a jaw-dropping, hair-raising voice/	
The Georgia Straight
12 GREAT SONGS FOR SI 1.99
IN STORES NOW!
a
0
<-' "      t*t**L****i
I*liui_l£y
Midnight May 4th 1996
rmay
T-t
// ~mg«m>m Hashing out three-minute caoescarchers is hath their pleasure and speciakg. formed {from tusa-thiras at
the wiu defunct Leather Uppers (R.LR), the Stinkier, sound mare chicken, fa&s feathers, they ride a u>ide rode shack'
\tMoe tahich echoes the spirit aftlnk blray and The O&nfures, tahtle tipping their hat to tha recent cultural phe-
\namenan knaun as /990s classic rack Anditith this 'groinafgrind, theg are headed far the top ofthe rackpife.
•fief ready, Vancouver, because the Stinkies are on their usagt Prior to their departure on their first cross-Canada
tout; OiS£GRD£R's runaway chicken, Sean Raggett, spake oiith head Stinkie, CJassy Craig Daniels in Toronto,
iSMi
DtSCOROLR. Dho are the Btinkiee?
Craig: Classy Craig Daniels (guitar), Sernie Pleskatch (bass)
and Niki Pollard (drama).
bid the 8tlnklee eoer think ae children that they mould
he reck 'n' re/fere?
I think our course asas set pretty earfy, although I remember; in
grade nine, thinking rockers osere losers. The asord 'rocker'das synonymous osith loser', (tie Just never realised ashat fun it asas. So
yeah, I'd say our course asas set. I alasays kneos.
Dhat mere the Stinkies' favourite memories ae children?
I u>as nig on Underdog. I asatched it tosice a day. fhe
flintstones, and a shoos called Aatfint, done by the
people asha did (dings of Steel. The main character
asas a hat. In fact, if anyone has old videos of Baffin!,
I'd love to osatch them.
Beet part of your favourite era?
The truthful nature and excesses ofthe songs ofthe 70s. (Starts
singing)   "Summer feeling rolls into my mind..." I listen to the
oldies station. It's like a riff machine I pull from.
Have the Stinkies eoer played a high-school dance?
No.
Craig, you mere part of the thiny called the Leather
Uppers. Oihat happened? Borne people eay you had
the host thiny yoiny, eoer. Dhy did the Leather
Uppers Site the duet?
DON'TWASTEYOUR BULLETS!
Dell, there osere some mistakes, and certain people in the hand
thought it asas a farce that people actually thought ose osere good.
Lie had reached a plateau after the album (0r% Don't Soy f/i...)
came out, and some people osere happy osith it, but some people
aseren V. fi lot of it had to osith the impatience that happens ashen a
first album comes out. De. had hit on a formula and people told us
ate osere the best rock n' roll band ever; and ose didn V see it. De
should have taken a break Like the Trashosomen, they took a really
long break and they came back fresh. The Leather Uppers should
have done that.
garage-y music. Things osere starting to happen.
Dhat klndofoan do the Btinkiee tour In?
De 've got a neat van I haven V even seen yet, an "88. Sadly, our
fast vehicle asas recently laid to rest, The Child of God'. Before ose
drove it, ose alt had to be/ieoe it asould asork. It asas an old, generic shit box from the 70s.
Dhat le the Btinkiee' favourite thiny about lioiny in
Canada, and about being Canadian?
The Upper Canada Sreosing Company.
Dha ie your Canadian hero?
Q "We know we're gonna rock everybody's ass oft"j
Advertise with Discorder
and zero in on your target.
ill Kevin @ 822-3017 (ext. 3) foi
Dhere did the Leather Uppers find their eutrayeoue
etaye ceetumee?
Used clothes are a big business in Toronto, like in Kensington
Market. Greg asorked at a clothes osarehouse, a raghouse, osith a lot
of 'bOs vintage clothes. There osere giant bundles of clothes, a
haystack of material, threads, and clothes, and odd pieces of art.
Niki just finished osarking there.
Rny hope of a Leather Upper e reunion tour?
Hope is completely smothered. Not even an inkling.
Dhat cltiee haoe the Btinkiee played, and mhere mould
the Btinkiee like to play?
Chicago, Detroit, finn firbor Hamilton, around Ontario
firet ehom?
Haflooseen 1991. That shoos osas significant because Toronto asas
ushering in a neos era... There osere bands happening like the
Knuckledusters, the Heatseekers, the Shuttlecocks...a bunch of
GARBAGE TRICKY BLUR
OASIS MASSIVE ATTACK
SMASHING PUMPKINS MEMS
WEAR STOMEROSES WEEZER
AMMONIA BEASTIES BREEDERS
ETC- YOUR SUNA LOVE.
w/dj key
THE STARFISH ROOM
T00ZDAYMAYI4TH/%
/ asould have to say my Dad. Dhy? Dell, it's a little knoosn
fact that he used to asork for Latons as a model. It asas in the
'SOs, and there osas no such thing as agents. He asorked for
the store and osas featured on the back page of old Toronto
Star ads. He's just a guy. He really shoosed,  "no matter ashat
happens, keep on truckin "... "
Been any yood movies lately?
Recent movie? I just saos Llottfe Rocket and I'll have to admit I
liked it a lot. Sut vintage? I'd have to got osith (Russ Meyer's)
faster Pas&ycaH
Horn did the Btinkiee land a epot on the recent Bu-Ge-
Go compilation (On Guard for Thee)?
fictually, it asas done an a ashim. I osas feeling sorry for myself,
and I asas asondering, Dho is this Lance Rock guy?'. I thought, 'He
probably doesn V knoas asho I am,' so I mailed him a letter, and he
phoned me back, all excited. So it goes to shoos you that if you
make the effort... De are really happy to be on it. My favourite
tracks, the highlights, are the Don Zippers, cub, the Parades, and
the Tonics, find the Huevos Rancheros track is quite goad too.
Dhen doee the Sympathy for the Record Induetry
record come out?
The 7" is out noas. The CD is out earfy dune. The hype osi/l be
over soon.
Dho ie Nardmaar™, and mhy ehould people care
about him?
He is my second Canadian hero. I care about him. He is a rock
historian doing valid research all the time. He is invaluable, both
illuminating and preserving the value of Canadian rock.
(dhat ehould me knom about Toronto that me don V
already knom?
Dell, there aren If tons of cool 'old man' bars. They've all been
dirtied by renovations, for my dollar; it asould be Lindey's
Hamburger and Steakhouse, or the Blue Cellar Room on Moor
Street, one of those places that has been completely forgotten.
Dhen you go, you're almost guaranteed to be alone.
Dhat do the Btinkiee knom about Oancouoer?
De knoos all about the Native bars (II) and the country strip on
Hastings. De knoos ose're gonna rock everybody's ass off
Bny faet morde?
The Canada-aside tour is going to be a crusade to bring a neos term
into the common intellectual landscape ofthe country: the term 'fucky
asacky'. Everybody's gonna be sayin'it.
The Bfintlee are playing In Oancouoer on May 28th
mlth the Mr.  T Experience and gob. Oenue TBA.
f2   MAY 1996 MUSIC FROM THE MOTION PICTURE SOUNDTRACK
featuring unreleased songs from:
Death Lurks
Pavement
Matthew Sweet
The Tragically Hip
Guided By Voices
Pell Mell
They Might Be Giants
Liz Phair
Scott Thompson and Joe Sealy
Paul Bellini
plus songs from:
Shadowy Men On A Shadowy Planet
Yo La Tengo
Odds
Stereolab
Cibo Matto
Pizzicato Five
(nlabils M(W9
LB
zai
ON SALE UNTIL MAY 31st, 1996
ivius ■ <_*:
«__. jr\. rs* *%> ao J**. /  k
.
-
*■>   >_s"'
V>vTf.
The sixth annual directory, chock full of contact
numbers and addresses of bands and the
businesses that support them, will be in the
September issue. The deadline for entries is
July 15,1996.
YOU ARE A (Check one):
_ BAND/MUSICIAN _PROMOTER
_RECORD LABEL/DISTRIBUTOR LIVE MUSIC VENUE
_MANAGER/AGENT STUDIO _OTHER
(elaborate below)
NAME:	
DESCRIPTION (15 words or less):
CONTACT(S):
ADDRESS(ES).
PHONE:
EMAIL:
FAX:
URL:
FILL THIS OUT AND MAIL/FAX IT TO US
BEFORE July 15, 1996
233-6138 SUB Blvd., Vancouver, BCV6T1Z1 fax:(604)822-9364
movie nights.
POP
«B Bra
IgySr
/ana-cuf,uxz&A m#iwy, eat/w/ia?r/i
one on one peer suport.
arwafuJtuMs/tMmeo/ie fo /ai>e a a>mfee and'fai%udtA
freedinner!  *        f>
__ aoot/pei/,' aocd'taw, at>od'arcri4, at>od'fimej
™ 3 day retreat
pre f>/?/u>rtasidu & art nut <>fme a'ta a/iavrea/Ae .tome mean air
sounds interesting?     #
, YOUTHCO'S POSITIVE-YOUTH OUTREACH ,
PROGRAM (POP) IS RUN BY YOUNG PEOPLE
I LIVING WITH HIV FOR YOUNG PEOPLE
LIVING WITH HIV. IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO
j KNOW MORE ABOUT IT THEN CALL US ON |
OUR     PRIVATE    &   ANNONYMOUS    PAGER
650-2649
because we're all in this together.
hell, we might even go bowling!
GUIDED BY VOICES
UW>ER THE BUSHES UNDER THE STARS
__See Guided *y Voices wjth
live €> The Cot imodore
SPOON
"TELEPHONO"
LP/CD
Spoon fcVS.
oh May 2nd!
http://www.matador.recs.cow FOR THOSE OF YOU LEFT OUT THERE WKO ACTUALLY BELIEVE THAT WRITING FOR THIS MAGAZINE REQUIRES EITHER A MODICUM OF INTELLIGENCE OR MUSICAL ACUMEN, ALLOW ME TO RELATE
A TYPICAL TALE TERMINAL UNHIPNESS. TWO YEARS AGO, GIVE OR TAKE, I STARTED VOLUNTEERING MY SERVICES FOR THIS ESTEEMED PUBLICATION AND DECIDED THAT I SHOULD ACQUIRE A
PASSING FAMILIARITY WITH THE LOCAL MUSIC SCENE. AT THE VERY LEAST I WANTED TO BE ABLE
TO SMILE KNOWINGLY WHEN NAMES WERE DROPPED, TO BE ABLE TO GIVE THE TRUE HIPSTERS OF
THIS TOWN A LOOK THAT SAID I KNEW EXACTLY WHO THEY WERE TALKING ABOUT - AND A WHOLE
LOT MORE. HAVING OPINIONS ON SUBJECTS I KNOW NOTHING ABOUT HAS NEVER BEEN A PROBLEM,
THE TRICK IS KNOWING WHICH SUBJECTS ARE WORTHY OF CONSIDERATION.
SO, WITH THIS DUBIOUS OBJECTIVE IN MIND I TROTTED OFF TO SCRATCH RECORDS TO STOCK UP
ON 7"S - THE ONLY FORMAT FOR REALLY COOL PEOPLE - AND CAME OUT SOMETIME LATER WITH
A POT POURRI OF VINYL FRIGHTS AND DELIGHTS. I WON'T MENTION THE FRIGHTS, BUT ONE OF THE
SURPRISE DEUGHTS WAS THE THREE-SONG ATQMOS 7" BY LOCAL HEROES SPARKMARKER. NOW,
ROCK PHILISTINE I MAY HAVE BEEN, BUT EVEN I HAD HEARD OF THESE HIGHLY PRAISED
KINGS OF ALL-AGES, DIY HARDCORE BRILLIANCE. NOT ONLY HAD I HEARD OF THEM, IN FACT, BUT
I HAD ACTUALLY HEARD THEM PERFORM LIVE AT THE UNDER THE VOLCANO FESTIVAL A COUPLE OF
YEARS EARLIER. AND SO IT WAS A BIT OF A SHOCK - HENCE "SURPRISE DELIGHT" - TO DROP THE
NEEDLE ON "KANSAS" AND BE ASSAULTED BY A SAVAGE BARRAGE OF SPEEDMETAL RIFFAGE. I DIDN'T REMEMBER THE BAND BEING A SPEEDMETAL OUTFIT, BUT HEY, IT WORKED FOR ME. IT WORKED
SO WELL, IN FACT, THAT IT WAS A GOOD MONTH BEFORE I REALIZED THAT THE SONG HAD BEEN
RECORDED AT IB1/!..
SPARKMARKER IS KIM (VOCALS 8 GUITAR), ROB (DRUMS), JASON (BASS) AND JORDAN (GUITAR), FOUR STYUN' HARDCORE BOYS WHO HAVE MADE A NAME FOR THEMSELVES AS MUCH FOR
THEIR POLITICS - OR AT LEAST PEOPLE'S (MIS)PERCEPTIONS ABOUT THEIR POLITICS - AS THEY HAVE
FOR THEIR MUSIC. OFTEN HERALDED AS THE CHAMPIONS OF THE DO-IHRSELF ALL-AGES SCENE,
THE BAND HAS RECENTLY STARTED PLAYING BAR SHOWS AND ARE SET TO RELEASE A SEVEN INCH ON
SUB POP RECORDS - JUST A PERCENTAGE POINT AWAY FROM MAJOR LABELDOM.
MEETING WITH THE BAND ON A WET AND WINDY SPRING EVENING, DiSCORDER SET OUT TO GET THEl
INSDE SCOOP ON THE EVOLUTION OF THIS VENERABLE PUNK INSTITUTION (HEY, SIX YEARS IS A LIFETIME WHEN YOU'RE YOUNG AND JADED), AND TO FIND OUT WHERE THEY PUN TO TAKE IT FROM HERE.
INTERVIEW
BY DYLAN I
GRIFFITH
DiSCORDER: I'm going to start with a really
boring band history question, just about the
changes in the lineup and stuff like that.
Explain the changes in the lineup - introduce yourselves.
Jordan: I've been in Sparkmarker for about
a year-and-a-half, almost two years. And I
kind of replaced Ryan, but I don't sing. But
I took his place, so to speak. 	
Did you entertain the idea of getting a new
singer when Ryan left or did you, Kim, just sort of step into it?
Kim: Well, we entertained the idea of Sparkmarker being no
longer, that that might be it. Even when Jordan became part
of the band it was in question about whether we were going
to maintain being Sparkmarker, whether we were going to
play any old songs... It was nothing defined, it was like, let's
just make music, and then we'll go (and) decide that later.
We played a show without really, really deciding, even.
Jordan: And we wanted to change the name, too.
To what, anything in particular?
Kim: Dylan's Best Friend - but didn't ring that well, so...
While we're on the subject of band history... (reaches into
bag)
Kim: Do you have an incriminating photo?
I have a very incriminating photo, (shows photo)
Kim: That girl's not even in the band, Our other guitar player
didn't make it to the photo shoot - he just didn't phone
back. So, like, there had to be a fifth member, and they're
really small photos. But everyone's got long hair.
You've sort of got a Milla Jovavich thing going there.
Kim: Who's Milla Jovavich?
She was in Dazed and Confused.
Kim: But, hey, I'm smiling. Nobody else is. Everyone else is
going (makes grimacing noise). I can't remember what her
name is. I went snowboarding with her a tonne of times, and
she was just in the neighbourhood, and I was like, come on,
let's do the photo, we have to have a fifth person, and it
was cool, 'cause no one wanted to be the middle person,
so she ended up there. And everyone was, like, 'Who is
that?' That's awesome, I want a copy of that.
That was your first DiSCORDER cover, too.
Kim: We hadn't been around that long, even.
Rob: That was when we were cool and had long hair.
I think that interview was nine months into the band.
Kim: And look how long it took to be on the cover of
DISCORDER again. See, that's...Don't ever be on the cover
like that, because it'll take another five years before they'll
ever give you an opportunity to be in DiSCORDER again.
You had to get haircuts before you were allowed to be
back on the cover. So, I wanted to bring out this picture
because I wanted to start with a sorta jokey thing. Every
other article I read about you always starts off with this serious, ponderous tone, like, "Sparkmarker, DIY, R-E-S-P-E-C-
T". Lots of spelling and it's always realty grave and serious.
Do you think people take you too seriousty, as far as the
way you're presented in articles and interviews?
Kim: I think people want to take somebody seriously, and if
there's a band out there that has some issues that they deal
SPARKMARKER
with, and blahblahblahblah.... We're just doing what we do
and some people want to, maybe, put some glamour around
it and make it seem like it's so special. There are a lot of people
who aren't getting recognition who are doing better things
than what we're doing. But, you know, the longer you've been
around doing things, the more people are like, "OK, well we
could do an interview with Sparkmarker and then mention that
they're doing this and then tie these things together.' And it's
nice, but there are limitations to it. People might think we're a
super-serious band, and (think) we're like Fugazi or something,
but it's like - no, not really. I don't think that's the reality of who
Sparkmarker are at all. lhat's just how someone else wants to
present us. That's going to happen - even in this interview,
you're going to present the way you see Sparkmarker, how
you want to present Sparkmarker. That's fine.
Rob: I think the topics are serious, but people just take it way
too overboard sometimes, where it seems like people aren't
even having fun at our shows. (It's like) they're afraid to have
a good time or jump around or get into the songs or whatever because it's like, 'Well, they're playing, so we have to
pay attention and not move or anything.' I hate that 'we're
so serious' kind of crap, because it's not true. We're fun guys!
And no one ever mentions your secret metal past in any interviews. There it is, there (pointing at photo), and there (pointing at
the rres stylee KISS patch on Rob's jacket). I didn't go to the
Starfish Room show, but I did go to the Pit Pub show and it was like
that: no one was moshing or dancing. And people said that at
the Starfish Room show everyone was just sort of standing there,
watching the band play.
Kim: It's kind of a weird experience of like - to mosh, or not to
mosh. And there's nothing in between, there's no alternative. I think (what) we're talking about creating was maybe
an alternative to this extreme violent moshing carelessness
for everybody's sake. We can respect each other, but still
have fun. And I think it's still possible.
How have people reacted to the fact that you're now playing
bar shows, and doing a single with Sub Pop, which is an
almost-major label? Do people hold you to what you've said in
the past, that you'd never play bar shows? Like, 'Sparkmarker
- they're selling out, they've lied to us." Have people said anything to you about that at all, do people care?
Rob: Not yet. No. I think a lot of the crowd that has been following us for a few years now are old enough to get into the
bars, so... (laughing) But, no. I was afraid of that at first, kind
of just having people say, 'Well, you guys would never play
bar shows and now you are', and, you know...I don't think it
really should - not that it doesn't matter, but -1 felt like -1 didn't want to feel that we were dissing people because we
started playing a bar show or whatever. But so far there hasn't been any backlash to it or anything.
READ ON...
I HATE THAT 'WERE SO SERIOUS  KIND OF CRAP, BECAUSE IT'S NOT TRUE. WE RE FUN GUYSFROB
MORE
ON NEXT
ts i^gsx^m ONT NUED FROM PREVIOUS PAG
As far as doing bar shows and the evolution of the band and the way you're progressing now, is it something you came to
out of frustration, like, you reached a point
where you knew you you couldn't go any
further? 'Cause there was an interview
where Kim said, "We've done everything
we can. If someone wants to pay my goddamn Visa bill, go ahead, because I'm
broke and I can't put any more records
out." Was it out of that frustration or was it
something that you conceived of, in terms
of not being able to stay at the level that
you were at forever?
Kim: We never conceived it. (It was more
like), 'We'll do this for as long as we can,
until it gets unmanageable, until it's at the
point that.,.' So yeah, out of frustration,
going, like, 'OK, let's give it a couple more
months. If things don't change, maybe we
can think about booking (bar shows).,.' I
think...I'm definitely a big critic, I'm one of
those people who wouldn't go out and
criticise any other band for playing a bar
show, but just by watching it, I'd be, like,
wow, that kind of sucks. I think that the fact
that we started playing bar shows, without
having to really talk about it, is a statement
in itself, that there comes a point where
some people might have to compromise.
You don't have to, but that's where we're
at. So people may not be talking about
the fact, 'Oh, you guys play bar shows and
that sucks', but they probably know it
sucks, they probably know that we're not
happy. And it's like - is it a contradiction in
terms? In some ways, but at the same time
I don't think we ever said that...uhh...we
were trying to say if you don't have to, you
don't have to. And it's come to a point, I
think, where we believe we have to,
because no one's paying our Visa bills,
you know what I mean?
Let's talk about the Sub Pop single - ifs
coming out in a few weeks?
Jordan: May 7th.
How many songs?
Jordan: Two.
And what was it like working with Sub Pop
- did you just give them the songs and
they took care of the rest?
Jordan: Almost that, I guess - we had to go
down there 'cause we kind of went over
cost on the production of putting it all
together, 'cause we wanted to put a condom and an information sheet in it. So we
went down there and helped them put it
together and insert all the goodies inside.
So they were pretty open as far as letting
you pretty much do whatever you wanted
with rt.
Jordan: Yeah, but when it came to going
over cost we had to put our own time into
it and our own resources. Which was fine.
And what about the new album? It's
already been recorded?
Jordan: Yeah, it's all been recorded.
How long ago?
Jordan: Last summer, in July. Something
like that. We're going to remix it before it
gets released.
Have you found a home for it yet? A little
birdie in Montreal said Crisis Records...
Jordan: Close.
Kim: Wow, birdies talk a lot.
Is there any truth to that?
Jordan: It's a well-informed birdie, but who
knows, you know, anything can happen.
We've talked to a lot of people. Nothing's
solid, nothing's signed, so...whatever.
Was Sub Pop at all interested in putting out
an album?
Jordan: We talked with them and nothing
really came about. They talked to us, we
talked to one of their people - who is actually a friend of ours - and we gave them a
list of things that we would like to have had
in the contract. It got sent back to them,
but talks sort of broke down and we
haven't really heard anything since. I think
not because our list of demands or anything, but because there's just a lot of shuffling of positions going on there right now
and it sort of got pushed to the backburn-
er. So instead of just sitting around waiting
for it we decided to talk to other people.
Rob: It could have been the salaries and
the bus...
(Laughter)
Isn't it weird shopping around a record that
you recorded that long ago?
Jason: I'm kind of used to it. Anything
we've ever recorded has taken a long
time to put out, so it's no big deal to me. I
mean, it's kind of frustrating but I expect
any record, once it's recorded, to take
about a year to come out. I don't know,
it's just what I've been accustomed to.
Rob: We've always been about two years
behind ourselves. We can never progress
and have something out right after it's
recorded and then start working on new
material. It's always like - record, year-and-
a-half later it gets released, start working
on new songs.
How does the new material compare to
the stuff thafs on Products & Accessories!
Is it pretty similar in sound or is it radically
different - the new lounge Sparkmarker?
Jason: Personally, I think it's a little bit more
focused. I love the Products & Accessories
album and everything, but the songs just
seem to be super choppy and just kind of
all over the place at times. The new songs,
I think, have way more flow to them and
they seem more like real songs to me. That
might sound weird, but I think that as this
line-up right here we've got a good blend
together where we can write songs and all
go, 'Yeah, that sounds cool', instead of
before (where) it was one person who had
an idea and another person had another
idea. I think it was a little mixed up before,
in a way. I still love the songs, but... The
new ones seem to be cooler to me now.
Kim: I think someone could criticise it and
say that it all sounds way toO similar,
whereas on the last record there might
have been a bit more diversity. This
one I think you're either going to
really like it, maybe, or really hate
it. And I think that also reflects the
fact that we recorded it not even
being together for a year as this
line-up, so we were a bit more like,
'Hey, let's really focus and get a
new record out,' and pressured
ourselves into doing what we knew
how to do well. I think only now we
are maybe actually stretching
those boundaries a bit again,
which is what I liked about
Products & Accessories, that there
were various things in there and it
did fuck around a bit. I love these
songs tremendously, but someone
else might not.
Do you feel, as a band, that you
can do whatever you want musically, or do you feel that you
should maintain a certain sound?
Do you work within certain parameters when you're writing and
recording, or do you sort of just do
whatever you want to do?
Jordan: I don't think we really think
about it that much as far as trying
to get a song together. I think we
just fuck around and look for what-  "•
ever sounds good - if it's a cool riff
that we can work around. I don't think we
really look at it that seriously, like, trying to
write a song that sounds a little bit more
like this band.
Kim: I don't think we're conscious of it having to sound specifically like this, but I think
you could pretty much put certain things
down - it's going to be loud and it's going
to be heavy-ish sounding and there's
going to be an edge, so to speak. Ryan,
at some point, felt that he couldn't really
express the views or the musical tastes that
he wanted to put in the band - it'd gotten
to a point that we were so far in one direction that it was hard for us to incorporate
other influences that he might have had
and felt that he wanted to explore. It is a
bit limiting. If we were all of a sudden to do
a lo-fi, Sebadoh song it would really sound
out of character for what we're doing otherwise. So in that respect, yeah, but I don't
think we have this formula for how our
songs have to be. And if we get stuck in
that I think we'd try to fuck that and go,
let's write a song that won't get played on
the radio, you know, as much as we can,
as fucked and noisy...
I'd like to talk now about the dynamic of the
band - not so much in terms of writing the
songs and stuff, but the way you represent
yourselves and the ideas and the values
you stand for. I don't want to get into this
being realty serious about you
again, but... You are a band that
stands up and you have things
to say and things that you put
forth. Is it pretty democratic as
far as what you choose to do
and how you represent yourselves as a band?
Jordan: I guess it's democratic as far as
stuff that we actually release, but, as a
whole, you know, we're four different
people and we all have different beliefs
and we're into different things, all of us. But
as a band we usually consult each other
and make sure everyone agrees on it. As
far as political issues, I think we all have different views and...I don't know, we're a
band, but we're still different people and
we can't really all agree on one idea.
Do you, Kim, feel like you have some sort
of monopoly in that you're the singer,
you're the spokesperson, and I'm guessing that you write most of the lyrics or all of
the lyrics yourself.
Kim: Definitely.
So do you try to represent the rest
of the band's views, or do you sort
of take it as - you're the individual
singing and ifs your song, your
lyrics, so therefore you're going to
put in what you want?
tS   MAY 1996
H Kim: Very good question, and it's very
I true, in the sense that it's not like... Here I
am, the most talkative person in the
world probably, and people offer me the
microphone and I take it, and the first
thing I think about is what's on my mind.
Being a very open person about a lot of
different issues, and having the microphone there, that's something that... It's
always been a problem from day one of
Sparkmarker of having an identity and
my voice being already known, existing
before the band, and it continues forth. I
would love it if any of these three guys
said, 'Shut up' and punched me and
took the microphone and said, 'This is
what I want to talk about'. And I hope I
make it feel comfortable that everyone
else can have a microphone and take it,
'cause when Ryan was the singer, damn
it, I still took the microphone away from
him and said, 'Here's my opinion'. I really
hope that everybody in this band feels
comfortable that, if they have an opinion
that they want to express, that they can
do it. But, I'm not going to speak for any-
most of the interviews and sings the songs
and stuff, it's 'cause he feels more comfortable with it and he likes voicing his
opinions more than any of the rest of us.
He's the one with the biggest ego is what
you're saying.
(Laughter) Exactly.
This sort of leads into the No Glove No Love
tour that you're doing with Puncture, in a
very sort of roundabout way.
Kim: Please don't label it like that.
Thafs what the press release says.
Kim: When you're trying to appeal to the
masses, it's amazing what you have to
come up with.
Those kids in Cranbrook need the catchy
name. OK, I won't call it that, I promise. Do
you have another name, an alternate
name? Sparkmarker-Puncture tour?
Kim: Just AIDS awareness tour. HIV/AIDS
awareness. Whatever. You know, it could
be awareness of anything, that just happens to be the thing. Maybe a bit more
than just a show.
Have you done some shows for rt already?
Kim: Yep.
AKIvmAiiIi
body unless they want to themselves.
Jason: I think the way it works, mostly, in
this band is like Jordan said, everyone has
different ideals and different ways of looking at things. It's just that some people,
certain people, are more outspoken
about it than others and feel comfortable
about saying theirs. I mean, I'm a quiet,
private person and whatever I believe is,
like, I don't vent it through the band. But
Kim likes to and I've never really disagreed
that much with anything he's ever said. I
like to play the bass, that's why I'm in this
band and I just, you know, play music. If
anything - if he ever went overboard or
over the top to a point where someone
disagreed, I'm sure something would get
done about it. That's the reason Kim does
And how did they go? Did
you have information tables
set up or anything like that?
Kim: It's nothing more than
going to YouthCO AIDS society and asking for condoms
and lube and information so
we can present it when we
sell our records and T-shirts. It's
not like a teaching thing, it's
not like teaching AIDS 101. It's
another way to get a condom, basically, because it's
an issue that's always
dragged up in schools, not
having condoms accessible
to youth, and it's one way of
making them accessible.
Rob: I think a lot of people at shows don't
like to be preached at, and a lot of kids are
embarrassed to go out and buy condoms,
so when it's presented to them at a show
where they can look at records and there
are condoms just laying out on a table with
information they won't be as embarrassed
to pick one up and read about HIV or
whatever. It makes it a little bit more of a
comfortable situation for a person.
Kim: We'd like to thank Puncture for playing with us at those shows. It's not just us...
You're playing with local bands in the
areas, too, that you're going to, aren't you?
Kim: Yeah. Meegan from Puncture is
amazing at keeping that together. We just
said that we'd like to do (the tour) and she
said (she'd) do all the groundwork for it
and set it up. So it wouldn't even be possible without her. They're really great people. We like Puncture.
Anyone else you'd like to send shouts out
to, so to speak?
Kim: There are a lot of good bands in
Vancouver, you know, but sometimes I
think people try to think everything sucks in
Vancouver, There are a really a lot of great
people in Vancouver, but somehow we just
get separated into our own little cliques.
There's a little Sparkmarker world, and then
maybe a Superconductor world...
How was it playing with Superconductor -
they haven't realty been doing very much
lately, have they?
Kim: That was their first show in a year. I
don't know, it was just playing with
Superconductor.
Rob: It's not like we hung out with them.
They played, they left after they finished
playing, you know, that kind of thing. There
are a few guys (who) are really cool that
we know and actually like Sparkmarker
and have our music and whatever.
They're a pretty cool band, they're interesting. It was fun playing with them.
Kim: We didn't get down with every single
member of Superconductor and chat and
have a big pow-wow session and all. It was...
Just a show.
Kim: We know a couple of the members
and that's all it really takes. It's not like we
have to know everybody in the band. It's
like when we did that Mystery Machine 7-
inch -1 mean, to this day, I've never really
sat down and hung out with anybody in
Mystery Machine.
Do you think Vancouver's pretty bad in
that sense, as far as, like you were saying,
clique-y-ness and the way there are different scenes that are - given that ifs not
that big a town, there seems to be a fair bit
of separation going on.
Kim: I think there's a lot of separation, a lot
of cliques.
But now everyone's getting sucked up by
Mint, so...
Kim: Yeah. (Laughs) I think the point is that
there (aren't many) differences, there are
just cliques. It's very easy to get comfortable in Vancouver in your own little world.
It's kind of weird that we don't do more
things with other bands and that people
think we're in our own little world. I think
what needs to be done, even on our part,
is to actually try to get together more productive ways to do shows together. And
not just through the clubs, where the promoter goes, 'It'd be good if we had you
and this band play together', but where
the bands actually say, 'Let's play together and do this show together without,
maybe, the promoters, maybe do some
all-ages shows together.'
Rob: It was weird, too, playing that show at
the Starfish. Originally it was, like, well let's
play with bands we really like and are
friends with, you know? And I thought it
would cooler, like, everyone hanging out
at the show together and everything, but it
didn't turn out to be like that at all, which
kind of bummed me out. It was just a show.
It wasn't really fun. Personally I liked all the
bands, I thought they were great and
everything, but it wasn't like a fun show like
I thought it would be. Especially with us
picking the bands that we wanted to play
with and then it ended up being each
band in their own corner kind of thing. It
was just kind of a weird situation, I thought,
Anything happening with Final Notice, by
the way?
Kim: To tell you the truth, honestly, I really
want to sell off everything we have of
Sparkmarker's and get rid of all the
records I have on Final Notice so that I can
completely just not even attempt to say I'll
do anything more with it and fail everybody. I can't do anything I want to do with
that label -1 just don't have time. I thought
I could actually do it, but you can't do two
things at the same time and do a day job.
Maybe one day, if I was a millionaire and I
had free time and I didn't need to work a
9 to 5 job and I had money to burn and
time to spend on doing it, I would love to
do it. I really love doing it, but physically I
can't do that right now, so there's no
sense. There's a record of the band Kittens
that should have been be out two years
ago and I'm trying to see if I can have it
out for when they play Music West next
week. And they don't even know that.
We've just kind of stopped talking to each
other. I think I'm just going to give them all
the records, or a bunch of them, and just
go, 'Take 'em, 'cause I fucked you around
so much'. So...so much for that.
Finally, Rob, is there any connection
between the length of time that Products &
Accessories was #1 on the Sam's indie
chart and your employment at Sam's?
(laughter)
Jason: Yeah, I placed it there. Every month
in fact. 'This band sold 20 more copies
than we did, but oh well, who cares?' No,
it actually sold really well there for some
reason. It sold incredibly well at that one
store and it's pretty amazing that...I think
cub actually still sold more records than
we did, but...It was pretty cool.
Sparkmarker's new 7" will be available on
May 7th, on Sub Pop Records. Look for
their new full-length album sometime in
the late summer or early fall.
Write to Sparkmarker c/o
Final Notice Records
P.O. Box 1457 Bentall Centre'
Vancouver, B.C.,
V6C 2P7
May 18- Nelson
July 12-Vancouver
July 25 - Salmon Arm
Juiy 26 - Vernon
July 27 - Kelowna
July 28 - Kamloops
August 23 - Saltspring Island
August 24- Nanaimo
t?   Ef^SEga between
■■■ aedmli
i  density urliforr
35_J
n,...nJu
I ^yandreg & amber dawnJ
lines
OVER THE PAST MONTHS I'VE NOTICED
that the ratio of American zines to Canadian zines reviewed in this column is about three
to one. The reason for this may be that there are
simply more American zinesters out there, but it
might also have something to do with the perceived inaccessibility of the zine scene to Canadian independent authors and artists. In case of
the latter, there a few local stores and resources
that can help get your zine or comic into circula-
There are two record stores that I know of in
Vancouver that carry zines. Scratch Records,
which recently moved to Cordova Street, handles
zines and comics on a variety of topics, although
most are geared towards art or music I've bought
many a zine there and they appear quite responsible as far as accurate bookkeeping and such
are concerned Be warned, though: Scratch's book
shelves (zine shelves) tend to be messy, and your
precious zine could end up stuck behind a copy
of In Hell's Belly (yikes).
Track Records on Seymour Street also has a
zine table, and a very tidy, appealing-looking zine
table at that. They don't, however, stock personal
or poetry zines, selling instead all the music-related zines we don't review in this column.
If you're looking for a bit more exposure than
a store shelf will give you, riot grrrl Canada is
putting together a new catalogue. For those of
Multimedia!
$l)otoa 8rt
Uprtcs.
$oetrp
MUSIC
from Step and a Half Records
Uneuen Steps
Pacified
CD Rom/Music CD
Available at
Scratch/Track/Zulu
june 6 @ guess?look?
esymons@direct.ca
sph 604 879 8748
you who may be unfamiliar with riot grrrl, it is a
non-profit organization that distributes girls' and
women's zines of a personal or political nature.
Send a flat zine (one without staples and ready to
be copied) to riot grrrl, PO Box 33, 345 E. Broadway, Vancouver, B.C., V5T 1W5, and they will
include your zine in the catalogue and distribute
it for you, charging only what it costs to make the
copies. [Nofe: Zulu Records, Block Sheep Book:
(W. 4th), Magpie Mogazines (Commercial Drive)
Vert Skateshop and probably a few other ph
we've forgotten also carry zines and comics of
various types -Ed]
Finally, I know of three compilation zines currently in the works, two of which are Canadian.
See the World, Chicken is requesting contributions from anyone who is surviving or has survived the mental health system. Write to 406-
1701 Powell St., Vancouver, B.C., V5L 1H6. If
you have lost a parent to sudden death, Zanna
would like to include your story and opii
in the compilation she is putting together. Send
your submission to PO Box 33, 345 E. Broadway, Vancouver, B.C., V5T 1W5. And, lastly,
the girls from riot grrrl press Chicago are
working on a zine about growing up poor
or working-class called Where I Come
From. The address is 2501 Lincoln Ave ,
PO Box 261, Chicago, IL. 60657
And for goodness' sake, send your
zines here for reviewing!
Chestlick #J
(8 5 X 6 5, 26
P9S)
Whenever I see
a new girl-writ-
hope that zines are
an effective form of
nication and action. Chelsea, the author of Chestlick,
has given me plenty of hope.
Her zine is a mixture of her
ind outside material, including a message
about women artists by the
Guerrilla Girls and some
recent rape and domestic
violence statistics. In her own
material, Chelsea reveals
her involvement in an abusive relationship and her
struggle to free herself from
it. I really enjoyed the wonderfully illustrated three-
page comic about verbal
harassment. Write Chelsea
Vaughn, PO Box 40701,
"    (land, OR, 97240-0701
something to be proud of.
Og #.'! focuses mainly on the distances that
exist between people, starting with the segregation of people in everyday life. Jo responds to this
phenomenon with guilt, confusion, and disappointment, emotions which also emerge in her writing
on her epileptic sister. Epilepsy and other disabilities are rarely written about in zines, which is unfortunate. I know my perspective on epilepsy has
changed after reading Jo's zine.
Og# / ends with a letter to a friend exalting
friendship, support, and communication - sort of
relief after sharing in all the author's frustration.
Send orders to Jo Banthatrax, PO Box 62023,
Arbutus Postal Outlet, Vancouver, BC, V6J 1Z1.
This
irgezin
send
extra US postage.
The Secret World of Og
til
(5.5 X6; 34 pgs)
I could sense when reading
this, Jo's first zine, the
of herself
when she wrote it. She has
no need to be, her zine is
honest and different. As her
first attempt, I think she has
Don't
Get Too Excited, It's
Just a Flip Book
(5.5X4.5; 14 pgs)
For those of you who can't wait for Trish Kelly's
Make Out Club #6, this mini-zine is just what you
need. Think of it as MOC #5 1/2. Trish begins,
"I'm so mad/afraid that you can't be here for me
right now" and for the rest of her zine she examines the anger and uncertainty associated with
love It may sound rather depressing, but Trish's
writing is actually quite poetic and beautiful. I
doubt Trish will print many of these mini zines, so
write her now at PO Box 33, 3435 E. Broadway,
Vancouver, BC, V5T 1W5.
Angel #1
(8.5X5; 16pgs)
Angel is Gina's first zine, a short and sweet attempt to express her feelings about her friends
and her life Always sentimental and sweet and
genuinely wanting to reach out to other people,
Angel is a charming debut that left me feeling
good Send a dollar to Gina, 52-1959 Purcell,
North Vancouver, BC, V7J 3H4.
What Little Boys Are Made Of...
(quarter size; 68 pgs)
"Race is learned, it is an idea that has been placed
in our head to strap us down into groups, to con-
In What Little Boys Are Made Of..., Razzle
explores race and cultural identity in the context
of being told that he is a white-washed ethnic person, someone who doesn't identify with his race
fully enough and is therefore considered by some
to be a 'sell-out' or 'traitor'. He also examines the
role his father played in making him a womanizer and realizes that the first step towards changing and having healthy relationships with women
is admitting that his father has influenced him.
People like Razzle amaze me with their zines
and projects. It gives me hope and inspiration
when I see that other people are questioning what
society has taught them to believe. Awesome zines
like this don't come around very often, so send a
buck or two to What Little Boys are Made of. c/
o Christina, 249-1027 Davie St, Vancouver, BC,
V6E 4L2.
HeartattaCk #9
(8.5 X 1 1; 64 pgs)
For any of you who are unfamiliar with this hardcore fanzine, I guess I have a little explaining
to do. HeartattaCk is a political zine that focuses
on independent DIY
punk and hardcore
(sons barcodes). It includes features, letters,
articles, music and zine
reviews (and lots of ads),
and it is a good resource
for those who wish to
learn more about hardcore and for bands who
seek exposure.
HeartattaCk is always honest and controversial, and
this issue's discussion of rape
is sure provoke thought. Send
a dollar to HeartattaCk, PO
Box 848, Goleta, CA,
93116, USA.
Alien Girl Catalogue #2
The second Alien Girl Catalogue
is out   Full of new t-shirts, stickers, patches, and stationery designed by girls for girls and featuring strong pro-girl messages,
the catalogue is meant to serve as
a fund-raiser for the Seattle Girl convention  happening on July 5-7.
Send a dollar to 1215 E. Spring,
Box 36, Seattle, WA, 98122.
Poker Face tt 1
(quarter size; 20 pgs)
Anyone named Andrea has to rock,
as confirmed by Andrea - natch - in her first zine,
Poker Face. Andrea begins by telling of how she
was forced to choose sides when her parents divorced, and of the anger and hatred she was surrounded by while growing up. She also writes
about the effects of growing up with a physically
abusive brother and of her consequent association of love with pain, something that was confirmed in her first two relationships with boys.
Polcer Face is a successful zine because, in
dealing with issues such as learning to break unhealthy patterns in relationships, the writer takes
the first step towards healing: talking about the
past. Send a dollar to Andrea, PO Box 62023,
Arbutus Postal Outlet, Vancouver, B.C., V6J 1 Zl
-      graphics taken from
Av*t ltt+l_ boys <*u-e mack
f8    MAY 1996 I
i«iP_f Richard Davies
ThuRsdoy MAy 9
doOrs 8:30Pm «sHow 10pM      «ff>^ I
TOWN PUMP
=-*^_ra_^
jLJibbers,
ENTS
My Head
and guests
Town Pump
I WITH QUESTS
I FRIDAY MAY 17
I doors 9pm • show 10pm
lTH! STARFISH ROOM
\PTAH^ j!)J _Jky 0!/
SopKie B.
H
jMon. June 3l
'doors 7pm • show 8pm
I vogue theatre!
live in concert
TIJE WATCHMEN
SShpmcweeping tile
Fridav June 7
The Cows
Saturday May 18
doors 8:30pm    show 9:30pm
Commodore Ballroom
■**
WITH GUESTS
The Jesus Lizard
and Laika & The Cosmonauts
Tuesday May 21
^ PNE Forum     m^
nf^P-^     GENERAL ADMISSION FLOOR %>C
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT ALL _____^_t_i_* TICKET CENTRES OR CHARGE BY PHONE 280-4444. TICKETS FOR
HOG, FLAMING LIPS, GERALDINE FIBBERS, THE WATCHMEN, REVEREND HORTON HEAT & ODDS ALSO AVAILABLE AT TRACK RECORDS
TORI AMOS — FRIDAY, JULY 19 AT THE ORPHEUM THEATRE. TICKETS ON SALE NOW. _FF^_Fl%#_E__Hie!_E
cnncERTS
^r <fl|       Almo Sounds Recording Artists     ^"-1
garbage
^(___r* guests POLARA ^B^
. SAT. MAY 41 VOGUE THEATRE /
Geffen/MCA Recording Artists
TUESDAY
MAY 7
Hog
THJ. STARFISH ROOM r?0?-
I Show 10:00 p.m.
^rt^aohanuihios
Sunday May 12
The Commodore
PRESENTS
^^ i_erren/M<_/\ rcecoraing nrtisrs
Cowboy
Junkies
«**.       w,,h
^^% $P«elal
1* * f Guests
*
_ll
Mon. May 6
The Commodore
Doors 8:30 p.m. Show 9:1 S p.m.
The Starfish Room
Thrill Jockey Recording Artists
TORTOISE
)®uuu
5IVE   STYLE
. May 22
The Town Pump
:s  at Track,   Scratch,   Black  Swan   &   Highlife  Record   Stores
All  Ticketmaster  Outlets  or  Charge  By  Phone  280-4444 EBB
^"ite^SRmn.-.-.tt
WE'LL START OFF WITH SOMETHING SURE TO BRIGHTEN
your day: the latest issues of Yakuza and Runt zines, the
creators of which have joined together for a split zine and bonus
one-sided record. Lara from Runt and her friend Mark are Nilc-L-
Nip, and together they recorded "Roseville" onto their one-track
tape recorder. A very impressive song considering it was written on
the spot - fun and unassuming, it made us smile. Just drums and
guitar and pretty boy/girl harmonies, Nik-L-Nip will satisfy any Beat
Happening fan. The second track is "Phone Message" by Dave from
Yakuza's Nana B. Literally. His issue of Yakuza focusses on the
world of grandparents, so instead of including a song he decided to
share some of his grandmother's love with us. She gives us o rundown of the care package she prepared for him, only the way a grandparent can. (Runt, PO Box 261, Merion
PA, 19066/ Yakuza, PO Box 26039,
Wilmington DE, 19899)
In the new trend of Merge Records
signees like Neutral Milk Hotel ond
Butterglory, Alabama's Verbena play
fuzzy feel-good pop with lovely guitar
and vocal melodies. The songs on their
"I Say So" b/w "Silver Queen" single
and Everyday Shoes EP seem to be influenced by Pavement (and all their influences), classic rock and the down-
home twang of the South. Indie rock,
country stylel (Merge Records, PO Box
1235, Chapel Hill, NC, 27514)
Bis are apparently the 'next big
thing' from Great Britain. They hail from
Glasgow, Scotland and who knows if
this'll impress you, but they
first indie band ever to play on Top of the Pops The brothers Sci-Fi
and John Disco are joined by Manda Rin, and together they make
music somewhere
in the middle of
the spectrum between the Madness-influenced
side of Blur and
the punky DIY
ethic of Huggy
Bear. These teens
play Brit-tle pop
with a punky twist
of sassy lyrics ond
cutesy vocals
Guitar, keyboards and a
drum machine
are the tools that
fuel this Secret
Vampire Soundtrack 7",    '
powered songs compiled by Boston's emerging Villa ViHakula label. Led Byrd, which is comprised of Mary Timony (Helium)
and Ash Bowie (Helium, Polvo),
give us a taste of their ominously
ambient sounds, in "Fantastic
Castle", a distorted, dark, moody
combination of feedback guitar,
bass, and keyboards. Kore is a
sister team who create sparsely
arranged, sinister tunes with a
bluesy, wailing vocal style remi-
the Dairy Queen Experience or
pick!) are back after their hiatus
:ir songs are any indication of a
>. are going in, they're more folk-
id strong, charming singing,
istfrom Sommerville,
niscent of PJ Harvey. DQE (either
Empire, we're not sure - take your
from releasing new material. If the
new direction Grace Broun and co.
oriented: strummy acoustic guitars
Last up is Denise Monahan, a spoken word
MA. Youthful, witty and entertaining, her eight short pieci
times over-the-top funky, '20s music - comprise her quorter of this
package. (Villa ViHakula, PO Box 1929, Boston, MA, 02205)
The other vinyl compilation we'd like to share with you comes
courtesy of the folks at Cher Doll Records, who seem to have a
knack for finding new, neato bands from all over the place. On the
seven-bond Champagne Dancing Party 7",
Beanpole play a poppy little number with
guitar, violin, ond double girl vocals. Sno
Boy contribute a fuzzy mix on "Something
Special", which is your typical three-chord
•y/Beat Happeningy guitar and
drums combo with Colvi
Names for Pebbles hove written the pop
hit of this release: catchy riffs 'n' smooth, soft
boy vocals. Orange Cake Mix start off the
B-side with their "2CU", o mellow, muddled
song, with vocals a la John Lennon Portland's
New Bad Things' "Rasputin Lover" is
strange, spooky rawk done party-style (watch
foi
which i
released by
Chemical Underground Records,
owned and operated by the cool
garage-pop band the Delgados. (PO Box 3609, Glasgow, G42
9TP)
While we're on the Scottish theme, Ninian Hawick (okay, so
they're not Scottish, we're pushing it...) contribute the song "Scottish
Rite Temple Stomp" on their split release with the Shebrews. Ninian
Hawick's seven members (plus the Dearly Boys) are guaranteed to
start your Scottish dance party with this upbeat, good-spirited anti-
love song. The Shebrews consist of Jim Ruiz, Stephanie Winter-Ruiz
(both of the ever-swingin', wonderful Legendary Jim Ruiz Group)
and John Crozier, a gang who do a beautiful, jazzy version of
"Leave All Your Old Loves", originally performed by the Liverbirds.
(Grimsey Records, PO Box 541, Stillwater, MN, 55082)
The Stargirl EP is a companion double 7" compilation to the
Move Into the Villa ViHakula LP, a snazzy vinyl-only album of girl-
samples. The last track on this record belongs to Neutral Milk Hotel, who let out their crazy side: experimental, noisy, and out of control (Cher Doll, PO Box
9609, Seattle, WA, 98109)
The indie-rock world can't seem to get enough of the
singer-songwriter from a band doing the solo thing. The
New Bad Things' Matthew Hattie Hein has done
just that, with his Lasl Chance 7" Matthew recorded six
heartbreaking songs that consist simply of his timid, whis-
pery sweet voice along with traditional folky, acoustic
guitar. Sarcastic, humourous ond sad, these songs
tain the same charm and energy as NBT, but in a more
intimate atmosphere. The best song is an ironic look at
the Olympia music scene. (Ross Records, PO Box 151 32, Portland,
OR, 97215)
We have just enough time to tell you about our pick of the month,
Go Sailor's brand new Don't Go EP on Lookout Records, which
comes packaged in a very trendy looking turquoise sleeve with black
and white photos of a high school dance. After hearing Rose Melberg
on her own, in Tiger Trap, the Softies, and in this group of herself,
Paul (of Take a Day and formerly the Ne'er Do Wells), and Amy
(Henry's Dress), we now feel confident in our assertion that she has
one of the most beautiful voices in the world. These four songs are
more of that sailin', retro strum-rock and '60s harmonies we've come
to expect of Rose and her team. (Lookout Records, PO Box 1 1 374,
Berkeley, CA, 94712)
Jad Fair & Phono-Comb
Monsters. LuDabtes ._and tho occasional flying saucer.
Written by Shadowy Men On A Shadowy Planet wtTJri Jad
and recorded by The Thrilling new combo Phono-Comb,
v/hich seems To be comprised of S.Men Don & Reid. and
Dallas of The Sadies.
On Guard For Thee
A Collection of Canada's Youth Cone Sad
Put together by the fine folk at Lance Rock for Australia s
Au-go-go Records. Features uiirealeased tracks by Huevos
Rancheros. Punchbuggy. Cub. Smugglers. McRackins. Crash] ?.
Sum. Chixdiggit. Evaporators. Stupes. Parkades. Pluto. The
sttnktes. Pussy Monster. Tonics. Forbidden Dimension, and The
Von Zippers/ Can't n<ill/ ask for much more...Can you?
Ron HavkinSTheJecretOf My E-
Yup he of The Lov/est Of The Low.
Ron and a cast of thousands deliver up what can best be described
as a  Cabaret". The song writing you know and love, musically it's
a far looser/diverse cuppa java...
Shake The Record Label
598 Victoria CP36581
Saint Lambert, due.
J4P-3S8
2t ii%&zmz realhveaction
cuse 1 7 Together with drummer
Lora MacFarlane, Sleater-Kinney
weave a luxuriously harsh
birdsong, playing almost exclusively tonight from their recent
Chainsaw release, Call the Doctor. And while their former
projects were lumped horribly
amongst (he pap lhat past years'
media labelled ihe 'riot grrl revolution',  Sleater-Kinney s
rapport with the teenaged audience. Poignant in simplicity, rich
in imagery, delivered with Big
City spice, the performance is a
pleasure because of its honesty.
Jane H. recorded last year wilh
Vitapup, and is soon releasing
her first fulHength entitled Spook
Engine, which, she tells the
ence with school-girl eager
'When this [record] comes
orking on this!'
5ean Raggett
Xlfa
THE SUPER FRIENDZ
MOLLY'S REACH
BACKROOM SHAG
Saturday, April 6
The Starfish Room
A fairly big crowd was on hand
early enough to catch the youthful, enthusiastic Backroom Shag,
who played garage rock in a
charmingly rough-hewn fashion,
which would probably have lost
ifs appeol if it had been more
polished. They looked like Ben
Lee's secret cousins and played
up a half-hour storm.
Edmonton's Molly's Reach are
a tight, five-piece band who specialise in head-nodding, rumbling
rawk'n'roll. The crowd was, unfortunately, not sufficiently appreciative of what was a pretty fine,
solid set
Could the Super Friendz possibly be ony better than they already are? lis hard to imagine
anyone being more entertaining
or belter live than these three
Haligonians and their new-ish
Toronlonion drummer, Lonnie
James. The Super Friendz' sel
was the beautiful result of that fine
combination, exquisite song -
writing and exceptional musicians Guitarists Matt Murphy
and Drew Yamada and bass
player Charles Austin all share
the singing, which would cause
some bands lo lack a focus for
their set, but it works well for them
because they're all good at it The
band was tight, but not slickly so,
working their way through rockin'
renditions of "Come Clean" and
"Rescue Us From Boredom", and
that most perfect of songs, "10
lbs", as well as other tracks from
Mock Up, Scale Down. The four
or so new songs they played
bode extremely well for the quality of their anticipated new album. Their predilection for country music came through in o lot
of the sel, and most especially via
the guitar of Matt, who must
surely be elevated to the pon-
iheon of Eternal Rock Gods (o
good ihing!) in honour of his always mesmerizing onstage antics, musical and otherwise. His
Pete Townshendisms would look
cliche'd on anyone else, but the
impression Murphy gives is that
he's just so damn happy to be
alive and playing music al that
point in time, and this feeling is
transmitted to the audience He
rules, they oil rule, they're an
excellent, excellent band - if you
don't catch them next time they're
out here, your life will never be
Sophie Hamley
SLEATER-KINNEY
JANE HOHENBERGER
Student Hall, Yale University
New haven, Connecticut
April 16, J 996
Two things make Sleater-Kinney
so vital to the contemporary underground: their power and their
accessibility. Since never-this-year
has a rock band moved like this
Sleater-Kinney cry, skip, run,
Rood like a landslide.
They are powerful, because
they are true. Certainly fhe most
notable aspect of Sleater-Kinney
are its members: Corin Tucker, the
woman responsible for the tank-
strong screams of Heavens to
Betsy, and the fantastic guitar nim-
bleness of Carrie Kinney, ex-Ex-
of lyrics like "You wanna try
her?/l think I wanna", and "I'm
not waiting/Till I grow up". The
lack of playmanship criticised on
their first self-titled 10" record is
nowhere tonight Sleater-Kinney
feel strong, composed and in control.
Thev
.sible becaus
outh. While experienced
leater-Kinney will reach thoi
jnds because they c
I  fo.
The off
handed smiles which mark
Corin's face between songs, and
the finesse of Carrie's movements
in mid-melody signal a nod to
both aging ond experience, but
also stand ond face the years
which have pushed them there in
the first place.
Jane Hohenberger opened, a
confident, charismatic colo artist,
native to nearby New York City.
During her set she switched
backup musicians three times;
they provide a rain of jazzy,
freely-formed occompanimentfor
both her songs and spoken word
pieces. She is witty, sensuous,
quickly developing a comfortable
XFROM CARGO RECORDS... THE ONLYX
CANADIAN TEAM LEFT IN THE PLAYOFFS!
This five-player Montreal team have
excellent experience around the
league. Their lineup includes former
members of team Nerdy Girl, Pest 5000
and the now-defunct Howard North.
Sackville's Low Ebb e.p. is their first
release and is certainly a shoo-in for
the final rounds! ■__?_■
O-Cargo cards 1996. lEaSpijil
Free agents upon their formation in
1988, signed their first contract with
Cargo Records in 1994. Known For:
Aggressiveness, with a record 364
penalty minutes in one season. They
have a loyal fan base in their native
city of Montreal and are taking the
country over by storm! _=
O-Cargo cards 1996. pHHS
CANADA'S LARGEST AND BEST KNOWN RECORD STORE
"Underdogs since 1987'        568   SeyiHOUr CDs specially priced for a limited time only.
22  MAY 1996 Dearest Discorder
I wanted to tell everyone out
there that Richard Davies will be playing at The Town Pun?) on Thursday May 9th
and that we are licencing his new
record: There's Never Been a Crowd Like
This in Canada from FLYDADDY. We're also
carrying records from Davies' past
incarnations The Moles' Instinct and
Cardinal's self titled.
Geez, what else...Oh yeah The
Local Rabbits have a new record out
called You Can't Touch This which was
recorded live off the floor including
vocals and ask anybody that's almost
impossible.
Vancouver's own Zumpano have a
brand new 7" on murderecords featuring
their rendition of "The Long and Winding
Road" as well as a truly wonderful song
called "The Only Reason Under The Sun".
It's the single of the year and it's
only May.
Feel free to drop us a line
for a  free catalogue:
murderecords
P.O.Box 2372 Halifax Central,
Halifax, N.S. B3J 3E4 Canada
email:   murder@ra.isinet.com
FREE PIERCINGS
With a jewellry purchase
you receive a free piercing by
Canada's most experienced piercers
You Can't
Touch This
MUR021 CD/Cass
MACK'S LEATHERS
1043 GRANVILLE STREET 688-6225
THE EXPERIENCED PIERCERS
FINALLY!
Q: WHAT DO YOU
GET WHEN YOU
CATCH WEEN AND
FUGAZI ON A
TRAMPOLINE?
*.G0RP
Shapes And
Colours Game
CD OUT NOW!
COMM SOON...
MEW
SMOOTHER • CD
AND...
MEW STUFF
FROM OUR LATEST
SIGNING: THE
NEW GRAND
ALSO...
RUMOUR HAS IT
WE'UMMEA
MEW TRIGGER HAPPY
E.P. OUT FOR YOU
THIS SUMMER
STAY TUNED...
see TRISTAN PSIONIC Mffw/SIANspheric*
ON TOUR IN EARLY JUNE - DATES TBA
see KITTENS live MAY 1 « Vancouver THE AUTEURS
After Murder Park
(Virgin)
The Auteurs ore o band lhat  se-
group concerned with 'serious'
songwriting. To yours truly they
are simply a seriously good
band. Guitarist and singer Luke
Haines has written atmospheric,
richly textured, and moody songs
which are led by his sometimes
raspy and sometimes soft voice.
I am assuming lhat it wos no accident that After Murder Park was
recorded at Abbey Road studios,
as several of ihe tracks, complete
with strings and French horn,
were no doubt inspired by the
Beatles' Abbey Road and White
Album. Helped by the Hammond
organ of James Banbury, however, Haines manages to create
a sound that is unique despite its
nagging fomiliarity. On some of
the songs he creates eerie, uncomfortable moods which are
suddenly liberated by sweet melodies that carry one to wherever
one is carried when such o thing
befalls a person. It is kind of like
when you take a short-cut through
a downlown back alley and the
stench of rotting garbage and
urine soaks into your clothes and
as you turn onto the sidewalk you
rub up against a cold, greasy
drainpipe while, suddenly, a
beautiful stranger walks past and
seductively makes eye contact
BEAT HAPPENING
Bear Happening
(K)
TALULAH GOSH
Backwash
(K)
Olympia, Washington's quintessential pop label, K Records, is
eilher getting sentimental in their
old age, or they're coming to their
senses and have realized that
they have some pretty importanl
tting  II
India
vaults and it's high time they
shared 'em with the rest of us. By
now, you may have decided that
the simple pop times of Beat Happening and Talulah Gosh belong
in the past (after all, most of the
members are still making music
in olher bands), but once you've
heard these yummy reissues,
you'll be hooked again.
The Beat Happening album is
sort of strange in that it seems to
/ 983-/ 985 record which was a
compilation of their very first full-
length, their first 7" single, compilation contributions, and some
live radio tracks The combo of
Bret, Heather, and ihe now-rock
god Calvin had a knack for writing simple, poppy, crush songs
that, despite Calvin's out of tune,
(or lack thereof?) spoken vocals,
managed to just stick, uncontrol-
lably. You can still hear Calvin in
the Halo Benders and Dub Narcotic, but for all the hot happenin'
poop, check out this 23 track collection.
Both Beat Happening and
Talulah Gosh were loved or hated
for the same reasons Accused by
media folk of being too cute, too
cent, it can't be denied that both
possessed a charm and down-to-
earthiness rarely found in rock
stars Despite popular opinion,
Talulah Gosh, whose existence
goes back ten years ago, could
play their instruments and could
sing, but the important thing is
lhal they had fun and so do we
listening to their brand of fast,
punky-pop ditties ond lush, '60s-
styled harmonies Often compared to bands like the Primitives
and the Marine Girls and often
described as 'twee' and 'girlie',
Talulah Gosh cannot be solely defined, or dismissed, by the fact
that there were women in the
group Both feminine and tough
(a headline once wrote: "Talulah
Gosh - wimpy men and strong
women?"), they write sometimes
sweet ("I'm in love for the very
first time/Could it be true?/Do I
want you?") and sometimes bitter, angry lyrics ("Some of my
best friends are bastards like
you/ At least they're not neurotics too") about daydreams and
the Pastels. And if you like this
assortment of Talulah Gosh singles, Peel Sessions tracks, and
live recordings, don't forget the
band thai three of the original TG
members formed, the heavenly
Heavenly, which is still alive today, thank gosh.
miko
BEDHEAD
Tho Dark Ages
(Trance Syndicate)
Breathtaking. Mesmerizing.
Trance-inducing
The Dallas, Texas fivesome
that is Bedhead offers up a delicious appetizer which will hopefully precede a full-course album
in the very near future. The first
and title track makes me want to
cry every time I hear it - it's completely melancholy and beautiful
without being overly sappy.
Unassuming. Atmospheric.
Brooding.
In the same camp as Seam,
Galaxie 500, Yo La Tengo, and
Low, Bedhead combines quiet,
soft vocals with slow, driving
drums and intricate, warm, guitar melodies "Inhume" is an inwoven sounds with a momentum
that builds magnificently   Span
ning jusl under a quarter of an
hour, lhisCD-EP/10" ends wilh
the upbeat number of the release,
"Any Life", which sounds similar
to their previous four-song EP in
its obvious Velvet Underground in-
Buy it if just for the first song.
miko
THE CANNANES
The Cannanes
(Ajax)
Last year Rebecca from the
Spinanes told me thot they were
thinking of doing a split 7-inch
with the Cannanes, since she and
Scott thought the Cannanes were
a pretty good band and ihe rhyming would make a fun theme. This
was all I knew about the
Cannanes when I agreed to review this CD.
From the sound of their
voices, it seems lhat ihis band
hails from either New Zealand or
Ireland, but I am shamelessly unable to distinguish these accents.
Either way, I wish the CD came
with liner notes, because I often
can't understand what the band
is saying, although I did make out
a reference to "Melrose Place"
in "Ordinarily", which certainly
makes the content of their lyrics
a little   suspect.
There is nothing eilher offensive or fabulous about this CD.
Not much energy in the music. It
is mellow and pretty lo-fi and the
vocals tend to be either somewhat
flat or annoyingly high-pitched
(and yet somehow still flat). A
major exception is "3-Way Release", which features one of the
guys talking over fuzzy guitar
feedback and off-key girl humming and kind of reminded me
of "Hey Baby", the anti-jerk rant
produced by Chia Pet, a project
of the original A-Sassy magazine
editors (back when Sassy was
pro-girl). When it finally ended
the first time I played it I didn't
ally a bad sign. But then again, I
might have busy atthe time, and
I did play it again later on.
Krista James
EXPERIMENTAL AUDIO RESEARCH
Betyond the Pale
(Big Cat)
When I picked up this CD I was
expecting to hear something
along the lines of Stereolab or ihe
Orb. I was grossly mistaken. Beyond the Pole is a six "song" EP
which was recorded in England
in 1992 by Sonic Boom and
Kevin Martin. It was re-released
this year by New York's Big Cat
Records for reasons I do not understand. The Iracks are all inslru-
mentals, which in itself is no
crime, but they're also pointless
and boring. Perhaps the CD was
impressive for 1992, but my seventy five dollar Casio keyboard
can produce nearly all of these
sounds today. As far as atmospheric ambience goes, I am
afraid Experimental Audio Research is not even as good as ihe
New Age mood CDs I picked up
for four bucks each at the Nature
store. Listening to this EP is like
being trapped inside an endless
B-grade science fiction movie
scene where the hapless humans
have been dropped onto a
swampy planet. They lift their
stunned faces out of the mud and
squint their eyes to moke sense
of the dork outlines of the trees
and brush around them, and then
they do this over and over and
over again while nothing else
happens.
GAS HUFFER
The Inhuman Ordeal of
Special Agent Gas Huffer
(Epitaph)
So the jig is up, the secret's out:
Gas Huffer are no longer the janitors of tomorrow, but instead the
saviours of the future, and their
modus operandi is reveoled
within their second release for
Epitaph Records. In the next
"Sixty Three Hours" villainy will
"Smile No More" os the four Gas
Huffers pummel evil-doers with
their bouncy backwoods punk
leaving them to ponder "The Sin
of Sloth". Are Gas Huffer inhuman in their methods? Certainly
not. Rather, they mark their cause
with a simple "Carolina Hot
Foot". A trademark known to
those who enjoy a little feistiness
with their musical frolic, something that team Huffer execute
quite nicely with this crime-busting disc.
Bryce Dunn
GIRLS AGAINST BOYS
House of GVSB
(Touch and Go)
This album has some of the most
explosive opening bars of music
you're ever likely to find, landing the hook in your head and
reeling you in for eleven songs'
worth of sonic exploration that
defies definite categorisation. Immediate reference points are
Shudder to Think and a little bit
of Monster Magnet. GvsB are
distinctive because they have two
bass players, and remarkable
because they use them to such
good effect - they could so easily
nave ended up being ludicrously
bass-heavy, but instead the
basses root the songs in firm
hooks and solid rhythms, and
give them a brooding quality to
match the lyrics. They in no way
overpower the sole guitar; in fact,
the balance between the instruments is quite delicate. The music itself is strong, pounding and
captivating. The band uses all
sorts of rhythms and styles, including a suitably dance-y beat in
"Disco Six Six Six" to the hard-
driving beats of o lot of the olher
songs. You can Iry to put this album on in the background but it
will draw you in, every time. Lyrics are provided (and needed) as
the vocals aren't always distinct,
but vocalists Scott McCloud and
Eli Janney's voices are a perfect
complement to the music on this
dark, somewhat nightmarish little wonder.
Sophie Hamley
THE GRIFTERS
A/n'f My Lookout
(Sub Pop)
The Grifters have a sound thot is
unique and yet difficult to describe. It's definitely notyour conventional rock. In fact, it's definitely not your conventional 'indie rock' either. Many of the
songs hove a soulhernish mellow
quality but often they erupt into
much more intensity os it
progresses. The Sub Pop website
describes the Grifters' vocal styles
as 'multi-layered' and that's exactly what it is like. Strong lead
vocals at some times and at olher
voices interchanging with each
other
"Parting Shot" and "Last Man
Alive" are really catchy and were
my favourites upon my initial listening. However, every time I listen lo the album I find a new favourite. A couple of days ago it
wos "Return to Cinder". Right
now it's "Day Shift", which has
an incredibly addictive chorus
about drinking too much. The
cool thing about this album is the
depth and diversity of the songs.
You can play it over and over
again and you find new things
to love each time
GQ
KINNIE STARR LOVES B.K.
LOUNGE
Learning 2 Cook
(Violet Inch Records)
Eclecticism is generally not a bad
thing and it makes strategic sense
on the first album of an unsigned
hopeful. I find that quality of
Learning 2 Cook frustrating, primarily because I was so impressed wilh the solo Kinnie I
have seen around town that I was
sorry I didn't get to hear more of
lhat on her album. But all these
songs are worth listening to, if
only for the poetry of the way this
girl mixes around her words.
The rawer stuff works the best
for me "Ophelia" has that loud,
warm and pared-down guitar-
driven sound of PJ. Harvey's earlier albums, and on "Buttons"
Kinnie proves her vocal range by
slipping slyly between song, spoken word and scream. On "Bock-
bone", she moves from English
to French to Spanish with such
grace that the transitions are
barely perceptible, and, like ani
difranco, she raps so well you forget she's a while girl. But when
the horns and percussion show
up on "Jobslyle" and "Copshow",
the music gets too big and fast
and cabaret-esque for me.
Krista James
BEN LEE
Away With the Pixies EP
(Fellaheen)
NOISE ADDICT
Meet the Real You
(Grand Royal)
The future of pop is now and its
name is Ben Lee. Lee is the last
word in well-tooled pop songs
with exquisitely memorable melodies and lyrics everyone can
love. He has copped the best of
his heroes Tom Morgon (of
Smudge) and Evan Dando and
shown them up as virtual has-
From one of the greatest albums of all time, last year's
Grandpaw Would, "Away With
the Pixies" was lifted as a single
and laid down as ihe first of eight
tracks on its eponymous EP. There
is a lower-fi version of "Ductile"
(the original track is also on
Grandpaw Would], and a cover
song - "Gidgel Goes to Rome"
Then...there are five amazing little original songs: "Red Slurpee"
("In the 71 1 of my soul, you're
my red slurpee"); the incredible
"Shirtless"; a rather solemn tune
called "Happy Hand" ("I'd lend
you my life story but it's missing
a page"); a paean to altars of
vinyl and their undeniable, ongoing merit in "My Turntable"; and
the truly funny, and not at all
cutesy, "Be a Kid", recorded wilh
his much younger nephew. I was
staggered by the high quality of
songwriting on these tracks - the
lyrics are so revealing and well-
phrased, the true voice of a teenage boy who just happens to
have enough talent to commit his
thoughts to artful song.
Lee is also the singer and
songwriter for Australian outfit
Noise Addict, who formed oboul
four years ago when they were
not yet teens, and received an
early boost from one Thurston
Moore. The 'classic' track of Meet
the Real You is "16", on which
Lee warbles, in his distinctive,
almost off-key voice, "I thought
my life would be a John Hughes
film...I thought that 1 6 had a girl,
1 6 had a car", and the great refrain, "Where's my spirit, where's
my teen?/ I can't be jaded yel
'cause I'm only 16". The album
also contains the beautiful sadness of "Boyfriendship", the raucous rock of "Poison 1080", the
infectious "Brinsley", and another
stand-out track, "My Pathetic
Friend": "She told me I'm o lot
like a late-night talk show/ If you
wait long enough, everything's
revealed, and then it's gone"
Noise Addict is Ben Lee's band,
but it's not just him - as a full bond,
they enable him to record songs
somewhat different to those on
the lo-fi Grandpaw Would, while
also just being a great band. This
album is a progression from their
earlier stuff, and it's a classic in
its own right- fhe definitive soundtrack of youth, by youths, and
youths who can, happily, write
amazing songs and play their
hearts out. It is a CD you'll play
over and over ond never tire of
listening to, because the lyrics are
amusing and wistful and true,
and the melodies are sweet and
hummable and representative of
a bona fide musical genius just
as he's hitting his stride.
Sophie Hamley
(    Hey, there's more   ^
reviews on the next
24  MAY 1996 Told ya so-
LIFE GARDEN
Ahitanaman
(Agni Music)
Life Garden is a group of musicians who for several years now
have been creating imaginalve
music that defies classification.
Ahitanaman, their fourth CD, is
a dark improvisafional journey
into the realm of the spirits, an
experimental sound collage of the
future and the past. Electronic
instruments are combined with
more traditional wind, siring, and
percusssion instruments to form
an incredibly unique musical experience. Percolating throughout
the instrumentation is the incredibly haunting and exotic vocals
of Su Ling, who sings in her own
unique language. Ahitanaman is
a world of very ancient rituals in
which spontaneity is the basis for
all creativity. The album is 70
minutes long and flows
seamlessly from one track to the
next, lulling the listener into a
ceremonial trance. Find this album and return to your tribal
firion Wright
MCRACKINS
In On The Yolk
(Shredder)
Does counting to four excite your
adrenal? Does that same numeral
also represent the maximum
number of chord changes your
attention span will tolerate? Then
chances are you will appreciate
this, the Mcrackins' cretinrific new
release (this album will also be
big with those of you with egg
fetishes). The production is a bit
bland, but wilh 14 songs about
eggs, junk food, pressed ham
and spud guns you can't really
go too far wrong. Besides, they're
local, so instead of buying that
Offspring album you can buy
something good instead while
supporting your own scene at the
same time. Wow.
JDS
MARION
This World and Body
(London)
This album was available in
Canada several months ago but,
hey, better late than never.
Marion is one of the heavy-on-
ihe-crunchy guitars/heavy-on-the-
eye-make-up new bands on the
London scene. They combine the
high energy of These Animal Men
with the high emotion of Gene.
Unlike the latter, however, they
do not consider themselves to be
contemplative types. In a recent
interview I saw on MuchMusic
they confessed that their lyrics
were not the kind that reflect any
deep thought on their part and
their album was not one which
"you play to yourself in your bedroom". Instead, they consider
themselves mainly a performing
band and most of the songs on
the album do, in fact, manage to
capture the intensity and dramatics of their live set which they recently put on display at the Star
fish Room. All in all, Marion are
not the cream of the so-called
New-Waveof-New-Wave crop,
but listening to their album can
certainly satisfy that yearning to
feel energized, melodramatic,
and chic when alcohol alone
won't do the trick.
THE MOTARDS
...rock kids
(Empty Records)
This five-piece from Austin, Texas
share a lot in common with some
of the other great combos from
the Lone Star State (Inhalants,
Cryin' Out Louds, Sugar Shack),
and that is a love for no-fi rock
and roll. Eighteen tracks of just
enough punk snarl, crunchy guitars and crashing drums to make
any fan of this two-chord tyranny
happy. Just pick this up and you'll
see what I mean.
Bryce Dunn
PAPA BRITTLE
Polemic Beat Poetry
(Nettwerk)
I guess I've enjoyed this British
foursome in the past, but this, their
second album, takes a new tack
wilh a type of music ihey describe
as "polemic beat poetry" (i.e.
gripe to a beat). Does the fact
that my two favourite tracks on
the album ore merely sample edit
fillers indicate anything?
POSSUM DIXON
Star Maps
(Interscope Records)
I enjoy a brilliant album, and can
even appreciate a terrible album,
but I truly cannot stand a mediocre one. And Possum Dixon's Star
Maps fits perfectly into the latter
category. Produced and engineered by Tim O'Heir (Cold
Water Flat, Come), Possum Dixon
band, complete wilh cheezy organ, and the quirky Camper van
Beethoven. In fact, 'quirky' is a
very apt word to describe Possum Dixon's music and lyrics. Star
Maps is chock-full of nonsensical
'      s like "If $36 would make you
lappy, I
-.uldg
box", and "I'm falling all
like a bad jacket"   But alas, thi
songs are mediocre. And  tha
bothers me.
Fred derF
SOUNDS FROM THE
GROUND
Kin
(Waveform)
One of my favourite tracks from
Waveform's Two A.D. compilation was the chilly-digi-dubbed-
out rambling cut called "Triangle"
by Sounds From the Ground
(SFTG). I've been looking forward to the domestic release of
for some time now. Considering
their organic sounding name, the
8 tracks on this laid back journey are very warm and soulful,
but have a distinctly synthetic
pulse permeating throughout. I
really dig the dreamish female
stroytelling of "Pearl". It is unmistakable that SFTG s creative masters Elliot Morgan-Jones and Nick
Woolfson are strongly influenced
by the world of dub. This album
is great to put on in ihe wee hours
of the morning as the memories
of your evening's activities swirl
around your brain and your body
slowly drifts into a state of tool
relaxation. Long live digi-dub.
Snan Wright
SPECTRE
the illness
(WordSound Recordings)
Best described as dubby ambient trip-hop, fhe /7/ness is as dark
as the genre gets. The sound is a
sparse and unsettling funeral
funk, almost spooky enough to
justify Spectre's Crowleyan pretensions. Bass lumbers over strangled rhythms, stabs of orchestrated dissononce, altered voices,
and defective electronics punctuate the beats. Granted, there is
a bit of claustrophobic monotony
to the whole thing, but perhaps
that's the idea. The only real failing is the thankfully brief vocals
on two of the tracks. It's hard to
talk about evil without sounding
silly, ihough the low mix level on
the vocals helps.
Despite minor quibbles. Spectre shows that his genre has lots
of room to grow Trip-hop is often seen as laid-back, but ihe illness is better suited to a dose of
thorazine lhan a puff of ganja.
Jovian Francey
TRIBE 8
Snarkism
(Alternative Tentacles)
I think Tribe 8 are probably the
only feminist punk band with guitar wanking. Enough said.
Barbara
VARIOUS ARTISTS
European Future Soundz
(Hypnotic)
This CD is a four-part beat trance
excursion of the most mediocre
kind There are lots of build-ups
and break downs and spacey
synlh riffs wilh samples like "Hey
baby!" or "Extacy!" in between.
As for the tempo of this compilation, most of the tracks move between 1 30 and 150 BPMs. Artists include Norman, Happy Ravers, Urban Trance Plant,
Semisphere, Sunbeam and many
others. Hypnotic releases have
been improving lately but this
compilation was a disappoint-
Brian Wright
VARIOUS ARTISTS
A Gift from Sing-Sing
(Popfactory)
A Gift from Sing-Sing is a compilation of fifteen pop songs from
nine different bands, such as Saturnine, Pullover and Shapiros.
Released by the small indie label
Popfactory, I was hoping to find
an obscure pop gem or two.
Sadly, I didn't discover anything
too exciting. The compilation
focusses  mainly on  lo-fi   pop
jangly, some slow and dreamy,
and some are punky, but they all
fall somewhere beneath the
broad pop umbrella.
The compilation features
Heartworms, a group including
Archie Moore of Velocity Girl,
and Trish Roy from Belmondo. It
also features the UK's Blessed
Ethel, whose claim to fame is winning a Manchester battle of the
bands, beoting out "the best
fuckin' rock'n'roll band in the
world". Oasis! But unfortunately,
very few of the songs on this CD
excite me much. In fact, I think I
actually do prefer Oasis
Popfactory, 143 E.22 St. #214,
New York, NY, 10010, USA
Fred derF
VARIOUS ARTISTS
Master Cuts Classic Acid
(Beechwood Music)
In ihe late eighties a little silver
box forever altered the face of
dance music. This silver box was
the tbr 303 and created the trademark squelch sound so easily recognizable in what is known and
loved as acid house. Master Cuts
Classic Acid is exactly what the
title suggests - its eleven classics
include: Phufure's 303 epic "Acid
Tracks", Fast Eddie's "Acid Thunder", Mike Dunn's amazing
"Magic Feel", Kevin
Saunderson's "The Groove That
Won't Stop", Armando's "Land
of Confusion" etc... If you're longing for the roots of acid ho
,1 for
:ol-
Brian Wright
VARIOUS ARTISTS
Offbeat: A Red Hot Sound
Trip
(Waxtrax/TVT)
An eclectic jazzy blend of spoken word, hip hop beats, beat
poetry and electro-ambi-experi-
mentation. Twenty-six new tracks
are contained on ihis compilation
which includes such artists as DJ
Krush, Laika, Tomanandy, Skylab,
DJ Spooky, Moby, Meat Beat
Manifesto and many, many others. Offbeat is a journey into
sound collage - exploring the infinite possibilities of improvisation
and electronic experimentation.
Also included on the CD is a short
film accessible wilh a CD-ROM
called Sextoy, which is erotic in
nature - inspired by the beat generation's investigation of sexuality. Overall, a weird ond wonderful headtrip.
Brian Wright
VITAPUP
An Hour v/ith Vitapup
(Plump Records)
Wow, this is a really neat album:
co-ed emo-core with scatterings
of hip-hop, jazz, and poetry. I like
the moody prettiness of ihe songs,
the crunchy beats (as laid down
by Melissa, who's also in Team
Dresch), and fhe boy singer's
beautiful voice. I also like the al-
len/space/umverse motif as dis-
played in the lyrics to "Freedom
For Saturn" ("We come frm dirt,
we come from clay/the city one
day will be bones and rocks and/
sticks and stones and
skeletons...freedom for Saturn,
revolution of the soul/must come
first") and "City Soul" ("I love
outer space because thai is where
I learned to go before I learned
to cross Ihe street"). This is music
for early mornings and late evenings, hopeful and inspiring.
25 es^sk^ iay'96    LONG    VINYUa_*g6   SHORT   VINYL
may' 9 6
E JOBS
1 guided by voices
2 the Braugglers
3 the spinanes
5 Blearer   kinney
6 cyndi dall
I 0 girls againBt boyB
II wedding present
13 rachel's
14 the grifters
I 5 bouncing Bouls
16 the deadcats
17 snuff
1 8 shonen knife
19 down by law
20 1
| 29    lesB than jake
30   possum dixon
|33 magic dirt.
34 noise addict
pansy division
official ironraen rally... mated
selling the Bizzle nint/lookt
growing   up fat   wreck   cho
call the doctor chaini
untitled drag    c:
on guard for thee au  go
are you building...? raer
deluxe men in Bpace touch and
house of gvBb touch and
heavy petting 200 epita
mUBic for egon Bchiele       quarter Bt.
ain't ray lookout Bub    p
maniacal laughter chunksa
bucket o' love flying    sauc
deramamUBBabebonk fat wreck cho:
the   birdB   and   the b  sides      vir
the dark ages trance    syndic;
Bpeed kills
oojooloo moonoka
the    cult    of    ray american
the   Bpeed   of   cattle alias
united states of poetry raouth almighty
losers,    kings    and   things...    no    idea
luna        ep no. 6
the pebbles
cebe barns band
pavement/man or 1
the toneburBts
furnaceface
orange glass
mecca normal
the kwyet kings
gaB huffer
handBome
forbidden
chixdiggit
punchbuggy
wandering   lucy
Lghty red barn 	
i'n Bitting by the window   planet pinp
shes a winner horBekitty
it's in  the pillcaBe skingraft
troraan? Bplit lava / atlantic
playB with herself raoon puss
i'm sick planet   pimp
nihiliBt pong
Ice dance
» bird that woul
uebody    like    j
sappy
l't fly       matador
iu 1 + 2
bacteria    sour
kill rock stars
full   city   blend
hallowe'en everywhere
uncle wiggly
shadowy bangers
b pop
i destroyer
t irving klaw trio
' violet
3 celestial  magenta
) pipedream
) squeeky
"   the papillomas
5   trish kelly
3 blowpipe
) hayden
I speckled jim
I johnny millennium
litary elephant
170     wayB
junior
devilina
on all the cracks
the     firBt     one
Baturday    disaster
3
blends    with   pens
ugly
5  jabber
3   readymade
!   the mystero
\  bloody worn
top ten madonna videos
Barbara's top 7 marvels
of the modern world
HCTt WIH BEAT TOP 10
express yourself
material girl
papa don't preach
1   MAIL
t(«
the       po
stage
system
in
eneral)
2 sleat
nney
call    t
he    doctor
rhainsaw
3 venu
cu
cee
all
4 a,cautolux
(subliminal meBBage:
go see them
go to Beattle and
see
t he
m.          you
wan
t          to
see
thera.)
5 indie
comic
bookB with
girl  heroes who ki
k asB  (e
-ven when
they
re
wri
tten
by
boys)
6 mick
y
finn
7 exene
cervenka  & lydia
lunch
rude   hier
oglyphic
s      ryko
1 Iob   hermanos
rosario
la   duena   del  nd
ng
karen
2 mickey    spic
strictly    the
beo
16
vp
3 mickey taveras
quiereme
mp
4 yellowman
around   the   wor
Ld
ras
5 tabou combo
reference
hibiscus
6 king sunny ade
e dide get up
mesa
7 gipsy   kings
estrellas
sony
8  waggy t
party   mix  vol  6
penthouse
9 la         banda
gorda
candela        pura
mp
10 wayne    wonde
all    original    bomb
hell
vp
THE MOTORDADDY'S
"MY KIDS'TOP 10 SONGS"
1    damien jurado
motorbike ep
2   mxpx
summer of '69
3   the fells
4   the tonics
littlest hobo theme
S   santa esraerelda
house of the rising sun
6   evaporators
coho coho
7   anything from the poin
ted sticks
8   delgados
liquidation girl
9   girl trouble
sings elvis
10   mickey's travel tunes
skat's top ten skank inducers
1    pietasters
oolooloo
moonska
I   skavoovie&epitones
fatfootin'
moonska
3   skankin      pickle
live
dill
4   voodoo   glowskulls
firme
epitaph
5   laurel aitken
bluebeat years
moonska
6   variouo artistB
generic skaca
stiff dog
7   scofflaws
ska   in    hi-fi
moonska
8   rudiments, suicide machin
u          skank for brains
dill
9   let's    go    bowling
mr.    twist.
moonska
10   mr.t   experience
ska - nic   reducer
lookout!
solid          state
top
10
1   1      hallucinogen
2 best                           of
3 best                                               of
5    nebula      9
platypus
everybody's
LSD     1
urotunnel
6    ethnica
juggling
lchemistB
8    off           and           gone
g     koxvox                                                tl
|l0    union     jack
ibal       oBcilla
there     will
receptor
SubscrteioTOTO^aFra^
P ' '   »■*
t _. _      Send cheque or
I money order to:
^^_^^_^^^_^^^_^_ |   Slibs c/o CiTR
I Yes! Send me DiSCORDER! And the CiTR Sticker button and magnet! . 233-6138 SUB Blvd
■^■^■^ .   Vancouver, BC
I        V6T1Z1
$15 Canada • US$15 USA • $24 Foreign j
26  MAY 1996 MCA CONCERTS CANADA
T_
fl_*®L
with guests
POE   and   SALT
SUN. JUNE 9
i  I
mmm
mmm
with guests
THE EXTINCT
FRIDAY
MAY 24
RICHARD'S ON
RICHARDS
IFRIDAYMAY31
THE TOWN PUMP
FREE SHOWCASE!
NO WRISTBANDS NECESSARY!
Verve
Pipe
__*_>_-•-JSi
SUNDAY MAY 5
^v     THE TOWN PUMP   jj
^ -     '       .     V     -        • ..       \       ■    .V   V
QUOTE  OF THE WEEK!
"Only sick music makes money today."   - Nietzsche in 1888 SUNDAYS
ARE YOU SERIOUS? MUSIC 8:00AM-
12:00PM All of lime is measured by its
art. This show presents the most recent
new music from around me world Ears
open
THE ROCKERS SHOW 12:00-3:OOPM
Reggae inna all styles and fashion.
LUCKY SCRATCH Alternating 3:O0-5:0OPM
Blues ain't nothin' but a good woman
feel'n' bad. Gil down and git back up
again - host Anna.
RADIO BLUE WARSAW 5:00-6:00PM join
kirn & helen in their quest for krupnik.
HEAlHER'SSHOW6:00-8:00PM Dedicated
to the gay, lesbian, bisexual, and
transsexual communities of Vancouver
and listened to by everyone Lots of
human interest features, background on
current issues and great music from
musicians of all sexual preferences and
gender identities.
GEETANJAU 9.O0-10:00PM Geelanjali features a wide range of music from India,
including classical music, both Hindustani
and Carnalic, popular music from Indian movies from the 1930's lo the
1990's, Semi-classical music such as
Ghazals and Bha|ans, and also
Quawwalis, Folk Songs, elc
RADIO FREE AMERICA 10:00PM-12:00AM
Join hosl Dave Emory and colleague Nip
Tuck for some extraordinary political
research guaranteed to make you think
twice. Bring your tape deck and Iwo C-
90s. Originally broadcast on KFJC (Los
Altos, California]
IN THE GRIP OF INCOHERENCY 12:00AM-
4AM Drop yer gear and slay up late
Naked radio for naked people Get
bent. Love Dave.
MONDAYS
BREAKFAST WITH THE BROWNS 8:15-
11:00AM Your favourite brown-slers,
James and Peler, offer a savoury blend
of the familiar and exotic in a blend of
aural delights! Tune in and en|oy each
weekly brown plate special.
THE STUPID RADIO SHOW 11:00 AM-1M
PM With your hosls the Gourd of
Ignorance. What will we play today2
Rog will put it away.
MEKANIKAL OBJEKT NOIZE 1:00-3:OOPM
CiTR's industnal/noise/ambienl show,
alt-ernating with SKINTIGHT
BUFFOONERY - wimpy British pop,
Beastie Boys, indie guitar swing, and
your olfactory nerve centre with
June scudeler@mindlink.bc.ca
THE MEAT-EATING VEGAN 3:00-4:OOPM I
endeavour to feature dead air, verbal
flatulence (only when I speak), a work of
music by a twentieth- century composer-
can you say minimalist2—and whatever
else appeals lo me Fag and dyke
positive. Mail in your requests, because
I am not a human-answenng machine.
Gol a quarter then call someone who
FEMININE HY-JINX   4:0O-5:O0PM   For
women who sometimes don'l feel fresh,
bul always get fresh Spoken word and
music light lo heavy flow Maximum
protection recommended for male
listeners. Holy Hannah! It's a Femininsl
POLYPHONIC   alternating 7:00-9:00PM
Listen for    all Canadian, mostly
independent tunes, and band interviews
at 7:301
THE JAZZ SHOW 9:00PM-12:00AM
Vancouver's longest running prime lime
jazz program. Hosled by the ever-suave
Gavin Walker Features at 11.
May 6: "Deelightful Lee" The Lee
Morgan Big Band. Trumpet legend
Morgan with tenor saxophonist Wayne
Shorter, pianist McCoy Tyner and
drummer 'Philly Joe1 Jones.
May 13: A rare sel recorded for
Japanese I v , by Thelonious Monk and
Charlie Rouse on tenor saxophone, Bulch
Warren on bass and the dynamic Frankie
Dunlop of drums.
May 20: "The Futuristic Sounds of
Sun Ra" is self-explanatory! Recorded in
1961 with stalwarts John Gilmore (tenor
saxophone, bass clan net), Marshall Allen
(reeds and alto sax.) and many others.
May 27: "Captain Marvel." Tenor
saxophone gianl Stan Getz meets electric
piano genius Chick Corea in an historic
1971 recording, also with bassist Stanley
Clarke, Airto and Tony Williams
TUESDAYS
THIRD TIME'S THE CHARM 9:00-11:00AM
Hear! Music that makes you feel burned
alive on an altar of flame! Shake with
laughs! Shiver with suspense! Tremble
with thrills! Not for sissies or children! It's
CiTR 1Q3L3 £m
scary! It's screamy! It's screwy!
MARY TYLER MOORE SHOW 4:00-S:00PM
RIOT GIRL RADIO.
IORA 5:30-6.-OOPM News, issues, and
concerns facing Muslims throughout the
world
THE UNHEARD MUSIC 7:00-9:OOPM Meat
the unherd where the unheard and the
hordes of hardly herd are heard, courtesy of host and demo director Dale
Sawyer. Herd up!
RITMO LATINO 9:00-10:00PM Gel on
board Vancouver's only tropical fiesta
express with your loco hosts Rolando,
Romy, and Paulo as they shake il and
wiggle it lo the latest in Salsa, Merengue,
Cumbia and other fiery fiesta favourites
Latin music so hoi it'll give you a Ian!
jjRADIO SABROSA!!
AURAL TENTACLES MIDNITE - VERY LATE
Warning: This show is moody and unpredictable Il encourages insomnia and
may prove lo be hazardous lo your
health Listener discretion is advised
WEDNESDAYS
LOVE SUCKS 11:30AM-1:00PM Tune in
for the musical catharsis thai is Love
Sucks. If you can't make sense of it, at
lee
:e lo il!
MOTORDADDY   3:00-5:OOPM   "At cluf
functions there is lo be no shooting of
firearms or setting off fireworks."
ESOTERIK 6:00-7:30PM Ambient/
electron,c/indusfrial/elhmc/
experimental music for those of us who
know aboul the illithids.
AND SOMETIMES WHY 7:30-9:00PM
swirlies, go sailor, doormouse, the
shebrews, sonora pine... these are a few
of our fave-oh-wnl things, la la lal
TROPICAL DAIQUIRI 9:00-10:00PM Zouk,
Soukous, Samba, Salsa. Yes! Even Soca.
Enjoy this Tropical Daiquiri with El Doctor
del Ritmo.
STRAIGHT OUTTA JALLUNDHAR 10:00PM-
12*00 AM Let DJ's Jindwa and Bindwa
immerse you in radioactive Bhungra1
"Chakkh de phutay" Listen lo all our
favorite Punjabi tunes - remixes and
originals. Brraaaah1
THURSDAYS
RADIO FREE WOMEN 10:00-11:30AM It's
not a free cunlry. And we're demanding
acuntability. Wake up with our collective
show
CANADIANLUNCH U:30-1:00PM Toques,
plaids, backbacon, beer, igloos and bea-
STEVE & MIKE 1:00-2.*00PM Crashing the
boys' club in the pit.   Hard and fast,
heavy and slow. Listen lo il, baby.
JUSTIN'S TIME 2:00-3:OOPM For some cool
jazz by some swingin' singers and
boppin' players, tune in and don't miss
out on some happy limes!
OUT FOR KICKS 6:00-7:30PM No
Birkenslocks, nothing politically correct.
We don't gel paid so you're damn right
we have fun with it. Hosled by Chns B.
ONAIRW1THGREASEDHAIR7:30-9:OOPM
Roots of rock & roll.
LIVE FROM THUNDERBIRD RADIO HELL
9:00-11:00PM   Local muzak from 9.
Live bandz from 10.
FRIDAYS
VENUS FLYTRAP'S LOVE DEN 8:30-
10:00AM Greg here. Join me in the love
den for a cocktail. We'll hear retro stuff,
groovy jazz, and thicker stuff too See
you here ... and bring some ice. XOXX
TELESIS 10:00-11:00AM Tune in for
discussions, interviews & information
relating to people who live with physical
& mental challenges.
SKAT'S SCENE-IK DRIVE! 11:00AM-
12:00PM SkaPunkSkaS-wingSka Polka
SkaCoreSkalanicSkaJazz etc.etc.etc.
SOLID STATE ALTERNATING 12:00-2:OOPM
Featuring the latest in techno, trance,
acid and progressive house. Spotlights
on local artists, ticket giveaways, & live
performances Hosted by M-Path
LITTLE TWIN STARS 2:00-3:30PM Kiki Liki
Kiki Lik<
NARDWUAR THE HUMAN SERVIETTE
PRESENTS...   3:30-4:OOPM Have a
are you
serious
1    music?
■f!l:H__-l
SHOW   /   B
BC   WORLD
SERVICE
tk.
SATURDAY
EPGE
wiU the
Sl-OWHf
third time s
the charm
fott-tfilltr
musical
interludes
VfA/vs Fivr**p's
Lore De*/
DIGITAL
HLRRH
CHROHOMETER
Radio frtt
Tt\tS\S
MiHO wow
BLOOD ON
THE SADDLE
Ska"D.iveenlC
love sucks
LUNCH
■aiAtt-M
ROCKERS
SHOW
Rave New War) /
sulidsrah*
EJ__C2__j
POW£R\
CHORD
MRHHNIKRL
DHJEHT
NOIZE
AVA/y^
SAM
justin's time
Little
Stars
1    SKD/T AK60/
Lt-cky
1         SCTdtcU
MMt-C*«M
Vmm
Jay!
MOTOR
dAddv
fUX YOUR
UfAD
AFRICAN
SHOW
NARDWUAR/
FmtMM Hy-jiM-r
Hary^Kooe
Rodio Km W*t*«**v
THE       CiTR       DiNNER       REPORT
hearsay       1
HetlUer's
$Ucw
e.?.r,«u,
Awtrt Hakst
ESOTERIK
OMt For Ki*
NATION
2
NATION
THE
SHOW
(hiphop)    |
polyphonic/
kip k-sp Mi
UNHEARD
nusic
and sememes
ON AIB WITH
CREASED HA K
cobra.
Sipptii:
sandvich
CeetMluli
tiik
JAZZ
SHOW
RITMO LATINO
tropic*".! tl«ii<*kiri
LIVE   FROn
THUNDERBIRD
RADIO   HELL
HOME
BASS     !
ONE STEP
BEYOND:
RADIO FREE
|      AMERICA
fill-in/
highball
Stf $ CfctttS
jallfcHtlt-ir
hi-hat/5     1
hour lunch 1
RADIO T.Y.
Groove
JUMP/lt/G
IN  THE
GRIP  OF
INCOHERENCY
SCRfAM/A/G
/rVCOM-
S/STfA/CffS
Tb/TA<IX$
fKIIT-Jfl
Uvwp
StMfc
fill-in
slot from
hell
SOMETHING
good bronchi
NATION 2 NATION 6:00-9:00PM
Underground sound system-
style mastermix radio
FOR THE RECORD 6:30-6:45PM Excerpts Irom Dave Emory's Radio Free
America Series
HOMEBASS 9:00PM-12:00AM The
original live mixed dance program
in Vancouver. Hosted by DJ Noah,
the main focus of the show is techno,
bul also includes some trance, acid,
Iribal, elc... Guest DJ's, interviews,
retrospectives, giveaways, and more
are pari of the flavor of homebass
UMP SINK 12KX)AM-2:42AM Hosted by
theG42 players. "The showlhatdoesn't
hate you." with your friendly pals Friar
Fritter Abfaclceln and Postman Pat.
Alternating with Dr. Killdare on "The
Doctor Killdare Show." Contact:
limpsink@broken.ranch.org
SATURDAYS
THE SATURDAY EDGE 8:00AM-
12:00PM Music you won't hear anywhere else, studio guests, new
releases, Brinsh comedy sketches, folk
music calendar, ticket giveaways, plus
Wor/d Cup Reporf at 11 30 AM. 8-9
AM: African/World roots. 9-12 noon:
Celtic musicand feature performances
POWERCHORD 12:00-3:00PM
Vancouver's only true metal show; local
demo tapes, imports and other rarities.
Gerald Rattlehead and Metal Ron do ihe
damage.
THE SHOW 6:00-8:00PM Slnclly Hip
Hop — Strictly Undergound — Strictly
Vinyl With your hosts Mr. Checka,
Flip Out & J Swing on the 1 & 2's.
SOMETHING 1:00-4:00AM "You can
tell by the way I use my walk. I'm a
woman's man ..no time to talk."
WHOM       &       HOW
Ails Katherine Ackley
Board Chair Harry Hertscheg
Business Mgr. any takers?
Current Affairs Slavko Bucifal
Demos/Cassettes Dale Sawyer
Engineer Richard Anderson
Entertainment Chris Allison
Librarian any  takers?
Mobile  Sound Ken Orchard
Music Megan Mallett
President Namiko Kumimoto
Production Siobhan McCrocken
Programming Miko Hoffman
Promotions Paul Kundarewich
Secretary Marlene Yuen
Sports Alex Bettencourt
Station Manager Linda Scholten
Student Engineer Fern Webb
Traffic Sarah Stacy
Vice President Ryan Ogg
Volunteer Coordinator John Ruskin
BUS. LINE 604.822.3017
DJLINE 604.822.2487
MUSIC DEP'T. 604.822.8733
NEWS LINE 604.822.5334
FAX   LINE   604.822.9364
Loyal Listeners/I
Readers. Take Note*)
congrats goes out to]
the new Citr executivej
the cool kids who do all
the work, 'round hereJ
there's a new batch of]
People to bug ... so bugl
away!!
28   MAY 1996 MAY
WED 1 Coal, the Molestics and the Messytones at the Niagara
(Music Waste)... Damnhait Doyle w/Kinnie Starr at the Starfish
Room. Margaret's Museum and Raining Stones at the Pacific
Cinematheque...
THURS 2 MUSIC WASTE: Something Ska, the Hounds of Buskerville
and the Tonics at the Niagara/Sister Lovers, Celestial Magenta,
vico, the Spiders and Hissy Fit at Samoos/The Beauticians, Lux Indigo, Sick Sick Yeah, Lonesome Canadians and Quonset at Cafe
Deux Soleils/Coma Toast, Cirkus Mind and Catz Jammer at Vancouver Press Club/Waiting for God, Helen Keller, Pigs in Space
and Fishburger at Old American/Potters Field, Crave, Shrug and
Pockerface atthe Source/Diesel Candy, Latex, Feedbag, Free Loaders Ball, Duel at Columbia...MUSIC WEST: Guided by Voices, Spoon
and V3 atthe Commodore/The Daisychain, Zuckerbaby, the Emptys
and Mr Jones & the Previous at the Gastown Music Hall/Smokin'
Frogs, Nickelback, Highway Freak Ticket and Line Up in Paris at
the Gate/Nancy Weisler Band, Inflatable Soule, Danielle French
and Cathode Ray at the Hungry Eye/Blisterene, Another Joe,
Plnwheel and Queazy at Phunky Toad/Kristia Jeanne Sheffield, Tone
Indbryn, Sans John Henry, Ventilator and Annette Ducharme at Railway Club/Texture, Ondine, Phenotone and mk noomi at Richard's
on Richards/Space Kid, On a Llama, Vav Jungle and Peking Butterfly at Route 66/Pluto, Fluffy, the Wheat Chiefs and Torcher at the
Starfish Room/The Real McKenzies, Sex with Nixon, Ottoman Bigwigs and Lame at the Town Pump/Last Harvest and Devil's Dream
at Pacific Cinematheque.
FRI 3 CiTR 101.9 fM PRESENTS A MINT/LOOKOUT! RECORDS
SHOWCASE FOR MUSIC WEST: THE SMUGGLERS, PANSY DIVISION, GROOVIE GHOULIES, DUOTANG AND MAOW AT
GASTOWN MUSIC HALL.. MUSIC WASTE: Smak, Zolty Cracker,
the Cowards and the Sweaters at Niagara/Darkest of the Hillside
Thickets, the Loved One, S.P.M., Black Market Beans and Fon Fon
at Samoos/An: Kyd, Load and Wretched Ethyl at Malcolm Lowry
Room/Bughouse Five, Coal, the Surfdusters and Lunar Marmots at
Cafe Deux Soleils/Aimless James, Stark Raving Chandler, Prof. Zio,
Amanda Stark, Relish and Ben Mahone at Vancouver Press Club/
Scum Element, Stervus, Screen Cleaner, Nagasaki Fondue and Vitamins at Old American/RTA, Third Eye Tribe, DJ Renrok and DJ
Shortfuse at the Source (early show)/Touch & Gos and Punkaoke at
the Source/Swarm and Down to Earth at the Cultch/Big Tall Garden, Five Star General, Six Million Dollar Band and Swollen GLobe
at Columbia... MUSIC WEST: Big Sugar, Rattled Roosters, Mike
Keneally & Beer for Dolphins and Bobby Cameron at the Commodore/Kittens, Noise Therapy, Jackie on Acid and Made atthe Gate/
J.J.Cale and Tom Wilson at the Vogue at 8pm and the Hard Rock
Cafe at midnight/Rhythm Pigs, the Muscle Bitches, Difference Engine and Gleam at the Hungry Eye/Lloyds Rocket, Gern Blanston,
DSK and Tone at Phunky Toad/Dick V Jane, Chuck is Dead, Amy
Brun and Shatterday at Picadilly Pub/DDT and Stinkin' Rich at the
Plaza of Nations/Blue Lizard Trio, the Molestics, Zso Zsa Velvet,
Scat Schroedinger and Cass King at the Polynesian Lounge/Tarni
Geer, Kinnie Starr, Veda Hille, Oh Susanne and Chris Field at the
Railway Club/The Workshop, One Step Beyond, Kilgore Trout and
Load at Route 66/The Meices, Rust, Gut Sonic and Len at the Starfish Room/Bif Naked, Matthew Good, Holly McNarland, Sylvanna
and Tariq at the Town Pump/The Paperboys, Mad Pudding,
Insterstellar Root Cellar and Soul Candy at the Unicorn...The joke
and Witchhammer at Pacific Cinemotheque...
SAT 4 CiTR 101.9 fM PRESENTS DOWNLOAD, LYDIA LUNCH,
KING BLACK ACID AND OVARIAN TROLLEY AT THE PENTHOUSE
(MUSIC WEST).. CiTR 101.9 fM PRESENTS THE DEADCATS, THE
SPEED KINGS, THE SADDLESORES AND RAY CONDO AT THE
UNICORN (MUSIC WEST)...MUSIC WASTE: Green Room, Big
Cookie, Silicone Soul and Bona-Fly at Niagara/Terror of Tiny Town,
knock-down-ginger, Daytona, Spiritual Heroine, 100% Peanuts and
Guppy at Samoos/Cinnamon, the Floor and Underwater Sunshine
at Malcolm Lowry Room/Cozy Bones, Drum Heads, Family Tree,
Bonnie Pit Laddie, Toast and Elliot at Cafe Duex Soleils/10 Foot
Henry, Plum Vine and Sarah Biggs at Vancouver Press Club/Bug,
Superfly, Rooter, Dead Head Miles and Screaming for Lou at Old
American/Belter, Reggie and St Someone at the Source/Soldiers
of Misfotune, Pipebomb, the Insipids, Dog Eat Dogma and the
Dunderheads at St. James Community Centre(ALL-AGES)/Trish Kelly,
Amber Dawn, Justin McGrail and Gary Ersatz at the Talking Stick
(ALL-AGES)...MUSIC WEST: Stereolab, Pure and Cinderpop at the
Commodore/The Colorifics, Geggy Tah, the Wild Bouquet and
Standard Fruit at Gastown Music Hall/Radioblaster, the Bloody
Chicletts, Protein and Speed Twin at the Gate/Matthew Good at
the Hard Rock Cafe/The Primrods, Svelt, Atomic Folk and Puncture
atthe Hungry Eye/Chickenhawk, the Pasties and Pipefitter at Phunky
Toad - late show/Free Speech Workshop w/ Exene Cervenka, Professor Griff, Pleasant Gehman and Dean Hapeta at Phunky Toad -
early show; Puzzlefish, Kudzu, Molly's Reach, Subtractor and
Freeloader at Picadilly Pub; Slam City Jam w/ Seaweed, Spiderbait
and Hip Hop Mecanix at noon at Plaza of Nations(ALL-AGES)/Bad
Religion, Dance Hall Crashers and Unwritten Law at Plaza of Nations (ALL-AGES)/Veal, Stephen Cummings, Rita Ghent, Dan Bryk
and Mark Reeves at the Railway Club/Hollowbody, the Violets,
Dorothy Missing and Brent Mason at Route 66/54-40 and Coco
Love Alcorn atthe Starfish Room/The Smalls, Punched Unconscious,
She Stole My Beer, Lode and the Spirit Merchants at the Town Pump/
Soucretes, Mastermind, Turntable Bay, Hip Hop Mecanix, Stinkin'
Rich and At Random at Mars.. .Garbage w/ Polara at the Vogue.. The
Joke and Witchhammer at Pacific Cinematheque...
SUN 5 MUSIC WASTE: Punkaoke/Wrap-Up Party at Niagara/
Stick Shift, Smak, the Cowards, Submission Hold and Scum Element
at the Source (4p.m.). MUSIC WEST: Seaweed, SNFU and
Spiderbait at the Commodore/Pal Joey, 1000 Stamps, Pete Krebs
and the Papillomas at Gastown Music Hall/Speedbuggy, Ringpiece
and the Readymade at the Gate/Technicians of the Sacred, Atomic
61 and Furious George at the Hungry Eye/Sound Pressure Manifest, Creek and Micky Christ at Phunky Toad/Stinkin' Rich, Turntable Bay and Hip Hop Mecanix at Picadilly Pub/Slam City Jam w/
Minority, North American Bison and ten days late at Plaza of
Nations(ALL-AGES)/A Few Roosters, the New E-Z Devils and the
Mean Reds at the Unicorn...Kerosene Lamps and Lemonade Joe at
Pacific Cinematheque...
MON 6 Cowboy Junkies at the Commodore Kerosene Lamps and
Lemonade Joe at Pacific Cinematheque
TUES 7 Boss Hog and Supernova at the Starfish Room Gavin
Walker Jazz Trio at Malcolm Lowry Room...
WED 8 40 Years of French Animation at the Pacific Cinematheque
THURS 9 Girls Against Boys w/Therapy? and guests at the Starfish Room...Primus w/Weapon of Choice at UBC Rec
Centre...Flaming Lips w/Richard Davies at the Town Pump Art
Bergmann w/Stick Monkey Bonesaw at the Gate. Dak Attack and
guests at Samoo Pub...Ottmar Liebert and Luna Negro at the
Vogue...40 Years of French Animation at Pacific Cinemotheque...
FRI 10 Daytona at the Starfish Room Knockin' Dog and Liquid
Amber at the Press Club...Hog w/My Head and guests at the Town
Pump... Forget Your Face, Pinwheel and guests at Samoo Pub ...Ottmar
Liebert and Luna Negra at the Vogue...Lois Lane at the Gate Au
Revoir Les Enfants and Elevator to the Gallows at Pacific
Cinematheque...
SAT 1 1 never never land w/dj Buck, Mark Farina, Mike Stevens,
Minute Maid, dj Noah and others; info (604) 451 3033...Cathode
Ray, Hookers of Fire and Lunar Marmots at Samoo Pub Lois Lane
at the Gate. Au Revoir Les Enfants and Elevator to the Gallows at
Pacific Cinematheque...
SUN 12 Afghan Whigs and Howling Maggle at the
Commodore...Don Ross at the Cultch. The Jester and Like a Bride
at Pacific Cinematheque
MON 13 My Knees Were Jumping and The Jester at Pacific
Cinematheque
TUES 14 Gavin Walker Jazz Trio at Malcolm Lowry Room...
WED 15 Jawbreaker at the Town Pump...Dave Matthews Band at
the Commodore...The  Flying  Camel  and   Sh'chur at Pacific
Cinematheque..
THURS 16 Wall of Shame Records showcase night at Samoo
Pub...Sh'chur and My Knees Were Jumping at Pacific
Cinematheque...
FRI 17 CiTR 101.9 fM PRESENTS THE GERALDINE FIBBERS WITH
GUESTS AT THE STARFISH ROOM. ..Revulva, Gradient Profile and
Fon Fon at Samoo Pub...Odds at the Commodore. Murmur of the
Heart and The Lovers at Pacific Cinematheque
SAT 18 CiTR 101.9 fM PRESENTS THE REVEREND HORTON HEAT,
THE COWS AND GUESTS AT THE COMMODORE.. Cibo Matto at
the Starfish Room...Coal and Wandering Lucy at the Malcolm Lowry
Room...C Section, Vico and guests at Samoo Pub ...Murmur of the
Heart and The Lovers at Pacific Cinematheque...
SUN 19 Song of the Siren and Carpati at Pacific C
MON 20 Havana Nagila and Song of the Si
Cinematheque...
TUES 21 Ministry and the Jesus Lizard with Laika c
nauts at the Pacific Coliseum. Joan Osborne, G. L
Sauce (huh?) at the Commodore... Gavin Walkc
lathequc
,nd the Cosmo-
r Jazz Trio
Malcolm  Lowry Ro
WED 22 Tortoise, the Sea and Cake and 5
Pump...A Question of Silence and  Broker
Cinematheque...
THURS 23 Knockin' Dog, Big Tall Garden c
Faster Planet at the Gate...Screaming for Lou c
at Samoo Pub...Sabor A Mi at Pacific Cir
FRI 24 Ani Difranco at the Orpheum    Mode
on Richards ..Station A,  Mother Trucke
Pub...Married  Life and The Legend  of a  Mask
Cinematheque...
SAT 25 Forbidden Dimension atthe Hungry Eye...Culture w/ Boogie
Brown Band atthe Commodore...Wall of Shame Records showcase
night at Samoo Pub.   The Legend of a Mask and Pueblo de Madera
..Carpati and Havana Nagila at Pacific
ive Style at the Town
i  Mirrors at Pocific
ind Creatures from a
ind One Angel Down
latheque...
n English at Richard's
ind guests at Samoo
at Pacific Cinematheque...
SUN 26 Miroslava and Married Life at Pacific Cinematheque...
MON 27 BANDIDOS AND PUEBLO DE MADERA AT PACIFIC
CINEMATHEQUE...
TUES 28 Gavin Walker Jazz Trio at Malcolm Lowry Room...Kino
and Bandidos at Pacific Cinematheque...
WED 29 Gertrudis and Miroslava at Pacific Cine
THURS  30 Bartolome de las Casas and Ular
Cinematheque...
FRI 31   Hellenkeller, BED and Sleeve at Samoc
Charm and Vive L'Amour at Pacific Cinematheque
latheque...
a at Pacific
*> Pub.Curtis's
EVERYTHING YOU
mmWiX
80UT EVERYWHERE
The Abyss  3 15 E. Broodwoy   (side entrance)
Alma Streel Cafe  2505 Alma   (ot Broodwoy)
Anza Club   3 W. 8th   (Mount Pleosant)
Arts Hotline
Bossix   217 W Hastings   (ot Combie)
Bockstage lounge   1585 Johnston  (Granville Island)
Block Sheep Books  2742 W. 4th (ot MacDonald)
Cafe Deux Soleils   2096 Commerciol   (the Drive)
Cafe Vieux Montreol   317 E. Broadway  (Mount Pleoso
Coprice Theatre  965 Granville   (Gronville Moll)
Celebrities   1022 Davie   (ol Burrard)
CNImax Theatre  999 Canada Place
Commodore Bollroom   870 Gronville   (Granville Moll)
Commodore Lanes   838 Gronville   (Granville Mall)
Cordova Core  307 Cordovo  (Gastown)
Crosstown Traffic   316 W Hastings   (downlown)
Denmon Ploce Cinema   1030 Denman   (West Enrrrd)
DV8  515Davle  (downlown)
Edison Eleclric Gallery/Cafe  916 Commercial (the Driv.
Firehall Arts Centre  80 E.Cordova   (at Mom)
Food Not Bombs Voncouver
Frederic Wood Theotre    UBC)
Garage Pub   2889 Eost Ho
n Theatre   36 Powell
Glass Slipper    2714 Prin,
celand   1250 Richards   (dov
(Gos.ownj
Edward   (Mount Pleason
Hastings Community Centre   2096 E. Hastings
Hemp B.C.   324 W. Hastings   (downlown)
Hollywood Theotre   31 23 W. Broadway   (Kitsili
Hot Jazz Society  2120 Main  (Mt. Pleasant)
4886219
222 2244
876 7128
684 2787
689 7734
687 1354
732 5087
254 1195
873 1331
683 6099
689 3180
682 4629
681 7838
681 1531
683 5637
669 7573
683 2201
682 4388
255 4162
689 0926
872 6719
822 2678
822 9364
684 MASK
877 0066
688 2648
795 3334
322 6057
255 2606
681 4620
738 3211
8734131
688 5351
224-8007
251 6626
685 7777
875 9858
685 3288
685 0143
230 MARS
Jericho Arts Centre   1600 Discovery  (Pt. Grey)
La Quena   1111 Commerciol   (the Drive)
The Lotus Club 455 Abbott  (Gostown)
Lucky's  3934 Mom
Luv-A-Foir   1 275 Seymour   (downtown)
Molcolm Lowry Room   4 1 25 E. Hastings   (N   Burn
Mars   1320 Richords   (downtown)
Maximum Blues Pub   1 176 Gronville   (downtown)
New York Theotre   639 Commerciol   (the Drive)
Niagara Hotel Pub  435 W Pender  (downtown)
Odyssey Imports 534 Seymour   (downtown)
Old American Pub  928 Main   (downtown)
Orpheum Theatre   Smithe & Seymour   (downlown)
Pacific Cinemotheque   11 3 1 Howe   (downtown)
Paradise  27 Church  (New West)
Porodise Cinema  919 Gronville   (Gronville Moll)
Pork Theatre   3440 Cambie   (South Vancouver)
Picadilly Pub  630 W. Pender  (at Seymour)
Pit Pub   basement, Student Union Building   (UBC)
Pitl Gallery   317 W Hostings   (downtown)
Plozo Theatre   881Gronvilfe   (Gronville Moll)
Roffels Lounge   1 22 1 Gronville   (downlown)
The Rage  750 Pocific Blvd. South   (Plaza of Nation
Railway Club   579 Dunsmuir   (at Seymour)
Richard's On Richords   1036 Richards   (downtown)
Ridge Cinema   3131 Arbutus   (at 16lh Ave.)
Romper Room 639 Commerciol (the Drive)
Russian Hall   600 Campbell   (Chinatown)
Scratch Records   317A Combie   (Gastown]
.ndyShop 4198 Moin  (ol 26th)
Storfish Room   1055 Homer  (downtown)
Starlight Cinemo   935 Denman   (West End]
Station Streel Arts Centre  930 Station   (off Main)
St. RegIS Hotel 602 Dunsmiur (downtown)
Theotre E   254 E. Hostings (Chinatown)
Town Pump 66 Water Street  (Gaslown)
Track Records  552 Seymour   (downlown)
Tree House lounge  602 Dunsmuir St.   (downtown)
TwilighlZone  7 Alexander   (Gastown)
UBC CINEMA (located in the SUB)
UBC Grod Centre   Gale 4   (UBC)
The Underground   1082 Gronville   (downtown)
Voncouver Eost Cultural Centre   i 895 Venables (ot
Vancouver Little Theatre  3102 Moin   (Ml. Pleasant)
Voncouver Press Club   22 1 5 Granville   (S.Granville
Varsity Theotre   4375 W. 10th   (Point Grey)
Vert 2412 Main (Ml Pleosanl)
Video In Sludios 1965 Mom  (Ml Pleasont)
Vogue Theatre  918 Granville   (Granville Moll)
Waterfront Theotre   14C5 Anderson   (Gronville Is.)
WISE   Holl   1882 Adanac   (ihe Drive)
Women In Prinl  3566 W. 4th  (Kitsilano)
Yale Blues Pub   1 300 Granville   (downtown)
Zulu Records 1869 W. 4th  (Kitsilano) 738 3232
SUBMISSIONS FOR DATEBOOK ARE FREE! TO HAVE YOUR EVENT LISTED,
FAX ALL THE RELEVANT INFO (WHO, WHERE, WHEN) TO 822 9364, ATTENTION "DATEBOOK" DEADLINE FOR THE JUNE ISSUE IS MAY24!
8 8701
254 3545
688 7574
669 6644
682 3291
665 3050
731 3456
525 0371
681 1732
876 2747
682 3221
822 6273
681 6740
685 7050
473 1593
685 5585
681 1625
687 6794
738 6311
254 3545
874 6200
687 6355
876 7463
6824171
689 0096
688 3312
681 8915
683 6695
682 7976
871 3090
682 8550
822 3697
822 0999
254 9578
876-4165
738 7015
222 2235
872-2999
872 8337
257 6205
685 6217
254 5858
7324128
29 u^^mm^ 1C—L0VE PffO
^m
■A
ewlL^lMW
VI] WXa^4^^\l^bf
/r7VJ_K" <
ttw^ _#*
4^ A ________kj_tt»Vj
^   /J/VO LET'S  /VOT FORGET
I  DISHONESTY, /WSTWOST
flA/o y<
^ POSSCSSil/aVESS.
_r   /S?
_(l^n_:^f
^T
r^<
^^
f^fc
f
J0   MAY 1996 The waiting is over... the KILLJOYS have returned
with a brilliant follow-up to their debut album,
Starry. Filled with perfect pop gems and a touch of
punk for good measure, Gimme Five is destined for
success. To sample a taste... just check out their
new single Rave & Drool.
I
HMV
I?
i
THE KILLJOYS
1160 Robson Street • Park Royal Shopping Centre (North Mall)
Guildford Town Centre • Willowbrook Shopping Centre
'HiW
Eaton Centre - Metrotown • Sevenoaks Shopping Centre / Abbotsford
Richmond Centre • Coquitlam Centre Various Artists
The Lounge Ax Defense &
Relocation Compact Disc co
What! The MAN wants to close the Lounge Ax?
What's Lounge Ax, you might ask. Why, it's
a much loved venue in Chicago; one that is now
being treated to the benevolent goodwill of
Touch & Go and a host of your favourite
alternative music talents (such high quality as
Tortoise, Coctails, Shellac,
Superchunk, Jesus Lizard and more).
Remember you are the scene, or it's all one big
scene, or... whatever, this compilation is worth
your attention (and the Lounge Ax your
indirect support). Fight the power.
16* CD
Richard Davies
There's Never Been A Crowd
This Big Before cd/lp
Poired with Eric Matthews (now of
Sub Pop fame), Richard Davies
spent his formative songwriting years in the
orchestrated pop combo Cardinal.
Davies, the recluse who championed a stylized balance of harmony with soul, further
honed his introspective vision with a brief
stint os a Mole(s). All accolades aside,
Davies' modestly titled solo debut features
a unique melodic touch within today's expatriated pop music. Come drink from this much
exalted cupl
16,JCD     12s LP
An explosion may seem disordered, but it i
fact a highly complex and structured <
minute details of order combining and interconnecting to complete a total definition or integrity (of structure or form, however loose it may
m). As such, no small part if unnecessary to,
or disconnected from, the whole. Polvo have
gone to a considerable length (two LPs worth) to
ie just such a thesis. Thankfully, Polvo's
chosen form/forum for conducting dialogue is
through rock, finally, a Polvo release that
gives them opportunity enough to explore the
eclectic reinvention of the pop song - as such
they do. Bravo, boys.
16* CD     14s8 2LP
Husikesqie
Green Blue Fire cd
Make contact with Lida Husik and
Beaumont Hannant on this, their latest outing through the electronic countryside.
This much travelled duo here insert a more
dreamy pastoral vision into their spacey trip-
hop mix. Stand by the Green Blue Fire
and hear the eire nightingale's call.
16s* CD
Bob Mould
Self-Titled co
A new, tasty full-length morsel from the man that just
to stop making great albums. More r
cent of the electric intensity of Sugar than his earlier solo work, but regardless, Bob's tunes just seem
to be getting "sweeter"... and better (we think!). Enjoy.
16s* CD
Strung Out
Suburban Teenage Wasteland
Blues CD/LP
Strung Out welcome you to American living circa
1996, with all the amenities of solid punk rock action.
Here it is from the West Hills of California, thirteen
songs capturing the new sound of the suburbs as it pulsates for every repoboy or -girl looking for a way out.
This is Strung Out!
14s* CD     12* LP
Built To Spill
The Normal Years co
The Normal Years offers a tantalizing taste
of some of the best gems from the recent past, courtesy of these infamous Boise boy s of indie rock, led
by singer/guitarist Doug Martsch (also of the
Halo Benders). K Records has compiled
Built To Spill's various 7" tracks and compilation
contributions, and have added a couple previously
unreleased recordings. Anything but normal, BtS
know how to rock - in a melodic, intelligent, and
humourous fashion.
14* CD
Palace Music
Arise Therefore cd/lp
Through the exploratory (re)creation of his own
i (remaining equivocal throughout, nonetheless),
Will Oldham has managed to evoke many different accents. Although Arise Therefore is a
return to more sombre images and sounds there is
enough to distinguish it from his earlier recordings,
and enough that is representative of his continued
dark, idiosyncratic vision. Oldham's (transcendent) existentialism is still very present: "condition is
uncertain and likely to go," he states in one song,
while offering that "we die many times, and each new
infancy is a surprise" in another. As well as his intelligent observations about the interconnectivity, fragility and partiality of social bonds and private relationships. The music itself, done with a drum machine for
this recording, is supportive of the evocative imagery:
mini narratives of a renewed tragic sublime. Arise
Therefore is another significant Palace
recording.
14* CD     12* LP
Sammy
Tales Of Great Neck Glory co/cs
Sliding down the street & packin' a double-barrelled
arsenal of smarts and style, the Sammy boys
slick back some well-greased riffs and talk the talk.
Can they walk the walk? Damn straight they can my
man. Just wotch as they pop you off with o potent barrage of hooks that spin and meander then strike hard,
leavin' you dazed and so pleasantly confused.
9* CD     6* Cassette
EXTRA MENTIONABLES
Various - Booby Tropdouble-7"
(features Saturnine, Starbeam
Lodybuy, Transistor, Blaise Pascal)
Propagandhi - Less Talk More
Rock CD/LP
Various - School House Rock CD
Various - Whore: 4 Tribute To
Wire CD
D.J. Krush - Metso CD-EP/12"
Sportsguitar - / Fade CSche CD
Pet Shop Boys - Before Parts I
+ 2 CD EP
Various - Estrus Cocktail
Companion (now on CD)
Scud Mountain Boys -
Massachussetts CD/LP
Nearly God - Nearly God CD
J Mascis-Martin And Me CD
Various -10% fife Under
Burroughs CD
Ash- GoldfmgerCD-EP
Thinking Fellers Union Local 282 -
I Hope It Lands CD/LP
Mark Stewart - Control Data CD/LP
Various - On Guard For Thee:
A Collection Of Youth Gone Bad
CD (features Bum, cub, Pluto,
and more)   -
Superconductor - Bastardsong
CD/2LP
NEW ON ZULU!
sustain
cd release party
friday may loth fgfPj
 . starfish room     "^?r *"*'
in stores everywhere may 7th