  ROCKET FROM THE CRYPT
appearing at the Cruel Elephant
DECEMBER 12
with Amphetamine Reptile Recording Artists
THE COWS W2MM
and from Calgary THE EL CAMINOS JSttsaS-
Sutter Psychic • Fuel
SISTER PSYCHIC
"Fuel"
&
CINDERBLOCK
"Greatest Hits"
on
mmt\
DISTRIBUTED
IN
CANADA
EXCLUSIVELY
BY
cms
TOSSES 1
m                  DECEMBER 1992
^                       ISSUE #119
IRREGULARS
i        CRAZY NIGHTS IN THE LAP0FLUXURY...6
GREENDAY
All The Young Punks 10
*     THE VANCOUVERS
^       The Spanish Connection 11
iV     CULTURE
B     The Grass Is Always Greener On THe Other Side 11
COAL
■       The Perfect Stocking Stuffer 15
m   FRONT LINE ASSEMBLY
^k      June Scudeler Takes Us To The Front 16
(I                       COVERS
g        For the 2nd year in a row, Mr. Gary
j| Wildeman takes the honours of capturing
^^   the yuletide spirit on our cover. Santa,
P      Rudolph, and their posse kick ass at a
fc                 venue near you...soon.
™                                                Print Ed Inc. Ana Da
'Too bad there isn't a bingo station," said                 OFFICE
Jason scanning the lame fm dial. "We should     l%lTu£V™z°&«o
have a Discorder Bingo Page! People could      ^£cTo?Z£*.
play at home with their dobbers..."          ^S^^.
Dr„m   ADC                                                  EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS Ju
KtuULAKS                                                  PRODUCTION ASSISTANTS
Adam Sloan
AIRHEAD                                                                                 .            GRAPHICS   Mark "Atomos
M,"ntMU D            PROGRAM GUIDE   Adam S
LIFE WITH THE FAMILY ENNDYE 5            SPIN! .ST   Mindy Abramow
ADV'R1ISING  Anthony He
SHINDIG 9            ACCOUNTS   Linda Scholte
..-. ......    .,.—>..-..                                                            _«.             LOCAl  DISTRIBUTION   Ma
HELEN'S KITCHEN 13        stateside distribution
MPUnuiuai  oniri/Tiinnr                                        in             SUBSCRIPTIONS'MAIL DIS
MEKANIKAL OBJEKT NOIZE 19        technical support   bi
FIITIIRF DAD                                                                      9<i            r'Sht- Stefan Ellis. Macin
l*U 1 UKt KAK *»         than ,ast month Systern 7
VIDEOPHILTER 21            PUBLISHER   Mr. Kevin   Sn
•      •*■•*              Discorder Copyright       1992
USE ONLY
*   Chris Buchanan
ark Pilon
olingbroke - Price
hrens. Ivan Gao, Helen Godolphin.
oberg, Adam Sloan
ette Kwong. Lisa Lutman, Svea Sjoberg
Anthony Hempell, Jason McLean.
° Pilon, Gary Wideman
t Steffich. Justin Leigh
DATEBOOK   Randy Iwata
TRIBUTION   Linda Scholten
1 Baker. Chris Buchanan. Copy
& stuff
by The Studen
s even more fucked
REAL LIVE ACTION 25       «___^^^^Sn
■^ndl-printe
1 monthly In Canada on
MOFO'S  PSYCHOSONIC  PIX 26              Including the CITR On Ihc Ola
UNDER  REVIEW 26         _Mi';U««V!'iC*!r.nT.".b.
2S!Sooacno5!'«
e and the CITR Splnllst
SPINLIST 28              P-»-bl. «. Otscorter Magazine.
ON  THE  DIAL 29              CTR 101.9 im i. ISOO watt, 0, neurotic bus, „om UBC to Lang.ey.
DATEBOOK 30        XT.ol?L7S
lity put together by an
comics                g# r.:_ revr^.,*
EVERYTHINGS DUCKY
by Blaine Thurier 12       0'"" »™; — CITR Mob'
Call CITR OJ line #(604) 822
THE BLANK GENERATION                                    *spo,,s * 2£& '"us
by Gary Wildeman 30                   *"3 6"8 SUB (
ally sealed In
he meaning ol "alterna-
n empty |ar of Sklppy -
c/o CITR » (604)822-9364. or write:
WE SUCK
Sorry!
W isi-TRp
AND MORE sTupjd
VERTICAL NSSL-
\m kDDlGTIOtf    shoP
\*.JM 2416 Main St. Vancouver • 872-2999
1102 Austin Ave., CoqultJam • 931-5070
1 Nardwuar the Human Serviette presents...
WELCOME TO MY CASTLE!
The Hanson Brothers
Seaweed ^
Smugglers        M**
Evaporators ,vf fl|_|
Friday Decern^ AGES
West Van Rec Centre Gym W
22nd & Marine, W Van, 7:26PM. '^KttNN'*-*-"'^
Tickets $6 at Track, Scratch,        *_____£« I
Zulu, Capers. Info: 926-9444
pep!              H
debut 7" release by Vancouver's cub
six songs including the hit "chico"
IfVnfPifWMW             '    "•■"****„- "
*-    *    j.
"--                  '" a-
cellophane square in    "1|^^*^^^^^^S
_£r
icouver, BC V5Z 4C9 Canada
Mint Records • #699-810 W Broadway, Var come on down to the railway @ $T% dunsmuir and
check out three hot local bands as the semifinals
begin mortday, november 23! $4 cover, open to
everyone! and don't forget the SHINDIG GRAND FINALS
at    the    cruel    elephant,    friday    december    11!
iWJSf **__•_ Right off the lop, HUGE congratulations are going out to our production manager, Mark Pilon, and
his lovely live-in, Holly, on Ihe
birth of their first child. Born was
the lovely Emmanuelle Allegro
ihe 30th of October. Entering this
world at a burly 9 lbs 1 oz. look for
Emmanuelle as a contender for
The Hulkster in next year's Summer Slam.
So, have you heard ihe news?
Punk rock is being reborn as you
read this. Just guess whal that
means? Ifyou said all the major
labels have dropped their "alternative" artists because they finally realized lhal mosl of 'em are
crap I'll give you points for style,
but a big goose egg for the delivery. We should be so lucky. Imagine il though: the scandal, the unemployment, the demise of Coast
radio. WouldKimG'ordon and Anthony Kiedis still be posing for
Gap ads? Il's scary how marketable this once stigmatized division of music has become—somewhat like sex; everyone wants a
part of it bul no one wants io be
caught wilh iheir pants down. How
Well, a certain trio of gentlemen by the names of Paul Cook,
Steve Jones and John Lydon (you
know him as Rotten) are reuniting
their little collective punk rock
posse, known to the world as the
Sex Pistols. Yup, for all the wrong
reasons mindyoufrighl, like there
is any good reason for a Pistols
reunion, duh), but the negotia
tions are in Ihe process. Early
figures have the Pistols reunion at
a lucrative $12 million for the
band to do with whal they may, bul
once television rights, publishing
and merchandising are figured into
Ihis deal you can expect thai num-
to triple.
Coincidentally, heroin
e again peaked
the choice drug for a new
being the drug responsible
for the death of Mr. Punk
Rock himself.Sid Vicious.
So, Rotten and Co. are in
the midst of finding a replacement bassist (original bass player Glen
Matlock is out of the pic-
some litigation with Lydon
and his associates); don'l
be surprised if they find a
woman to fulfill the job
requirements, though.
Even the Pistols can't deny
that women in rock have
become a force lo reckon
with, and lhat "token female bass player" which
is so popular with the bands nowadays could be the ace in Ihe hole
for this reunion.
So this lead': me to wonder,
what could follow in ihe wake of
this reunion? A Sub Pop single
(limited edition on colored vinyl,
of course)? A Lollapalooza dale?
A boxset? A Saturday Night Live
Whether you welcome
and whether or not it actually happens, we'll all be in line for a
ticket. Hypocrites? Maybe. One
thing is certain, Sid is rolling over
in his grave and the Pistols couldn't
have been more righl when Ihey
sang of "No future." No
future...indeed!
One final note, Ert Dredge,
Ihe Program Director al Boston's
college radio station, WMBR, is
looking for some input from fans
of Canadian alternalive-rock artists. It seems Ert and another student, hailing from Southern
Ontario, have started up a 100%
Canadian Content program and
would gratefully appreciate any
suggestions!submissions regarding independent artists worthy of
the Beantownairvi'aves. Ifyou have
any suggestions you can contact:
Ert Dredge,
Program Director
3 Ames Street,
Cambridge, Mass. USA
02142
or call: 617-253-4000
OLD SCHOOL
Dear Airhead,
I know lhat Discorder has been an
alternative magazine for a long
time, and I feel I have been alternative for ages, but I get really
mad when you criticize people who
are alternative there are lots,maybe
thousands in this city who are different and rebelling against society and maybe you should realize
we are all in this together. In high
school I was picked on by lots of
jocks, One Halloween I spiked my
hair into a Mohawk and went lo
the dance. 1 slammed to the Sex
Pistols and met a girl named Julie,
she know calls herself Seiouxsie
after her favourite band. We were
the only alternative people in our
school bul stayed with what was
hip, (I knew sub-pop would be
big). WE go to Luv-a-Fair all the
time and they slill are at the fore
front of alternative music, so	
What's my point, I am alternative,
I have earned it, Lollapallooza was
for people like me nol the idiots
who showed up, so join the fight
Discorder, you are alternative.
Sincerely,
Jason Jekill
Vancouver
P.S. You probably won't print this
bul at least listen to whal I say!
Jason, are you for real? If so, I
guess you're pretly happy wilh
this Sex Pistols news, hey? I'm
sorry lo hear that you're still living in 1979 bul my best wishes go
oultoyouandJu...Seiouxsie(sic).
As much as we'd like tojoin your
fight for allernaliveness, most of
our time is taken up wilh our charity work for ihe Salvation Army.
Know well.
HIGH SCHOOL
Airhead,
Recently, one of favorite bands,
D.O.A., came to Vancouver a few
weeks ago, but as usual, 1 wasn't
allowed in because I'm underage.
This is bullshit. Il seems like
everytime a really good band comes
to town (ie. Nomeansno,
Furnaceface) I'm left behind because of some stupid fucking rule
that says you have to be over 19 in
order to attend the concert of one
of your favorite bands. In three
years when I will be nineteen, Jello
Biafra will surely settle down and
stop touring, and D.O.A. will be
gone living in some far away place
reminiscing about their careers.
Sure there will be other bands, but
the punk legends will be gone.
That's why. Cruel elephant, the
Town Pump, and all the other
goddamn places which only lei in
the over 19 crowd—FUCK YOU.
Alternative music should be for
everyone, not just a few select
group of people that meet ihe requirements. I don'l want lo be
deprived of my right to go lo one
of these shows and I shouldn't be.
Alcohol and concerts don't mix
anyway. Some asshole always gets
sick in the pit and ends up spewing
all over the place. You'd want to
remember the concert and not just
recall barfing all over one of the
bouncers. I also get really pissed
off when somebody attends one of
these concerts, and bitches and
complains for some whimpy reason. Just be glad you were even
able to go! If you don't like it
going to these shows, give your
ticket lo someone who'll appreci
ate it, not badmouth it the next
day. I give to great places like the
Nappy Dugout and the New York
Thealre my thanks for believing
everyone should be able to come
and support their favorite bands-
and as for ther other shitholes like
the Cruel Elephant and 86 street
(1040 sucks anyway) bum in hell
you booze-thirsty, money hungry
Fix
Del
a guy with a bone tc
, B.C.
/ think ihe main point eluding you
al present, Jason, is your belief
that there is a "stupidfucking rule
lhal says you have lo be over 19 in
order to attend the concert of one
of your favourite bands." The law
says ti
censed lo serve alcohol. The
"booze-lhirsly, money-hungry
baslards" which you believe run
the Cruel Eleplianl andTownPump
<  busi,
tsofru
establishment which primarily
serves liquor. By selling beer and
olher drinks lo patrons, Ihey generate revenue lo pay iheir rent,
staff, and olher expenses. Bands,
whether or nol they are original,
alternative, or punk rock are
hired (al a large extent) on their
ability to draw people into the
club lo spend money on drinks and
keep the establishment vibrant.
Therefore, cover charges are, generally, in place lo pay ihe bands,
cialed with the musical performance. For the mosl pari, this is
there  are  exceptions...but   nol
Still, the Cruel Elephant
hardly scrapes by and all-ages
promoters (like the Nappy Dugout
and the now defunct Gest Quest
Co-Op) survive on idealism and
the motivation ofthe people who
assist in pulling on the shows,
e nice if idealism and
on were all thai it took
? Jusl Iry it and you'll
find that bills have to be paid,
bandi need food lo eat and gas in
iheirtank.andevenluallyIhe "volunteer spirit" erodes: people go
broke and have lo face ihe fact
lhal money is the bottom line; music
$444.00. This, I think, is an incredible success when you lake
into consideration the amount of
money the band must have spent
on gas, food, accomodations, repairs, tolls, etc.. How many bands
do you think, would continue if
they lost money on every tour?
So my conclusion is lhal your
real enemy is either the BC liquor
legislation or your own altitude
thai ihe world owes you a good
lime. Why nol put on your own
show? Phone up your favorite
bands (their record company's
phone tt can be acquired ihrough
any city's directory assistance) and
ask them lo play an all-ages show
next time they come through town.
Just make sure lhat you and all
your friends go out and support
Your last resorts are to ei-
fake ID, or wait, whining and
moaning, until you turn 19 when
you can join the rest of us louts
who frequent ihe Elephant and go
home al unreasonable hours wilh
a sore throat, bloodshot eyes, ringing ears, and a headache. And
believe me, in 3 years, Jello will
NOT have "settled down" and
DOA, having only moved from
Burnaby to East Van. in the lasl 15
years, won' be going anywhere
too fast!
ART SCHOOL
Hey, Airhead...
I'm a little tired of the continual
discussions about music and fashion, doesn't anyone look at art
Why do people go out of their
way to spend all their UI and welfare on entrance fee and designer
labels when art openings are absolutely free? For instance on Halloween this year 1 went lo a superb free
evening of titillating a
self-mot
aren't.Didyousee the Sparkmarker
lour diary lasl month? A Canaan advertising or press, and play-
c lhat
>l loud enough to
and a delectable
lion the an. The drinks were cheap (I
don'l know how those women made
money) and the red wine tasted great.
I went to ARTEMISIA, which is a
brand new art gallery at 156east7th.
attempting to supply an alternative
to expensive evenings at the movies
or overproced concerts during this
depression that we find ourselves
in. Apparently they arc also adding
election of magazines
iliai
en.ly   u
lahle   n
crnmcnl cheques away...I'm putting some of it where il does the
gallery to buy a piece of generation x that I can have on my wall
and which won't give me a hang-
SUPPORT THE ARTS
sincerely
bo boyle
•Note: All "Airhead" letters
are published as they are received. So, if they read like a
piece of shit it's the writer's
fault, not ours.
DECEMBER Crazy Nightsv ***< ? «~^*e^       by Mark Klein
\       In The Lap Of Luxury
tg
7
n Dowell turned fifteen in the st
occasion he celebrated wilh his best friend of five years,
Evan, al the Riverfront Coliseum in Cleveland, Ohio. The
two trekked via, Greyhound bus, from their native
Columbus to see Evan's favorite group Kiss play the only
Ohio date of their Crazy Nights tour. Nol to say Simon
wasn't excited by the prospect of a Kiss show, his favorite
rock group had always been Cheap Trick, but he and Evan
have had a long-running friendly feud over their heroes
dating back lo 1985. Sadly for Simon, lhat fateful summer
night marked the beginning ofthe end for their five year
clash ofthe seventies (and, as they would both point oul,
eighties) titans.
The day started out normally enough, wilh the two
bickering good-naturedly about Cheap Trick's most re-
cent offering The Doctor (already a year and a half old) and
Kiss' red-hot Crazy Nights, while the Cleveland Express
bus whirred along the 1-95. Both records were very "current" sounding, something that made the boys very happy.
"Who says Cheap Trick are yesterday's supergroup?"
Simon wondered aloud. "Ihese songs pack all the synth
punch the Thompson Twins get all the credit for." Evan
just chuckled quietly; he knew his friend was on the
defensive. Not only was The Doclor Cheap Trick's mosl
uninspired effort to dale, it was also their worst selling.
When the group had loured the midwest in support of this
loser the previous spring, they were lucky to fill a Burger
King, let alone a nitcclub, while the almighty Kiss were
cntcrtaining that night at the enormous Riverfront. Even if
some tickets had yet lo be lapped up by the heavy metal
locals, he knew that by showtime those outstanding
bleachers would fill up hke a Big Gulp.
"Romance In a Rcarvicw Mirror" came squealing
oul of Simon's Walkman™ headphones, Tony Piatt's
production filling the air. "Fuck off!" Evan
yelled, grabbing his buddy's Dream Police fanzine out of
lis hands. Simon laughed and killed the tape, but contin-
icd losing the catchy song only slightly under his breath:
It took just one look."
"Man, Rick Ncilson can'l write a new song to save
his life," Hvan snarled. "And what does Robin Zander
know about girls?" The second remark hit especially low,
bul Simon had a bevy of Paul Stanley-gay nimours lo
throwback in Evan's face. Inside, however, Simon didn't
think of his idols as having any sexual preference at all,
ilh the exception of rock V roll.
When they got to their room al the Comfort Inn late
that afternoon, Evan gave Simon his birthday present: a
Netherlands-issue cassctlcofCheapTrick'si 9X3 tour-de
force, Next Position Please, with a diff ere
three songs missing from the domestic release. "HOLY
SHIT!" Simon shouted in excitement, giving Evan a half-
hug. "Where'd you ever find this? ...Collector's Racket?
...Diamond Joe's?"
"C'mon, let's go to the show," Evan laughed, grabbing a cardigan and spraying a shot of Oscar's I:or'Ihc Man
"What's that for?" Simon asked him.
"The ladies, maaan! Bees to honey; I got this little
wonder from Keith, ihe center on the volleyball team."
Simon blushed and swallowed hard, following Evan out
into the hallway.
The show that night opened with a sel by Anthrax,
perhaps the most unlistenable group Simon thought he had
ever heard in his life! While he certainly enjoyed the hard
rock genre (CheapTrick's recent "Man-u-lip-u-lalor" could
hardly be called an easy listening song!), this stuff was just
too terrible to stand, so he was surprised to sec Evan rocking
his head up and down in beat with the tunes. "You like this?"
Simon asked him.
"Kevin gave mc the lape lasl week," Evan shouted
back above the din, "il totally rocks, dude!"
An hour later, Kiss took the slage five minutes late
with a rousing "Detroit Rock City," straight inlo "Hell Or
High Waicr" and "Bang Bang You" from their latest. "I can'l
believe they're playing these!" Simon shouted excitedly
into Evan's ear jusl as the latter took a long swig from a
semi-hidden flask.
"Want some?" Evan offered. But Simon jusl gave him
a stunned look.
"I thought you came to sec KISS?!" he yelled.
"Whal, you think I brought this lo read the label?"
Evan laughed, taking another healthy quaff of lukewarm
gin.
It wasn't until mid-set that Simon realized Evan was
no longer next to him. He didn't spot him again until Kiss
was intro-ing "Turn On The Night," their new single and
Evan's favorite from the Crazy Nights CD (Evan had jusl
bought a player and even let Simon bring his lone Cheap
Trick CD, 1985's Standing On The Edge, over to play on
occassion). There Evan was, aboul six rows down, his fist
punching in the air wilh a scantily clad blonde, possibly
a sophomore or maybe even a senior, leaning against
him. The next time Simon looked up he saw the two
of them weaving their way through the congested
aisle towards the exit. "EVAN!" Simon called to his
friend, but there was nothing lo be heard above Kiss'
multi-watt presentation of "Uh! All Nighl," not to
■n the thousands of Rock Soldiers chanting right along.
getting him backstage or
Simon couldn't beliei
Kiss show early! Th;
something.
Simon returned lo the Comfort Inn alone after the show,
and came into the room to find E an's bed a mess and the
bathroom door locked. "Who's that.'" a girl's voice asked, jusl
as Evan walked oul lo give his friend a big hug.
"Birthday Boy!" he smiled, "Sorry, we left you there,
bud"
"Did you get backstage?" Simon asked him, just as the
blonde from the concert came out of the bathroom putting a
silver spider necklace around her neck.
"Janis, Simon. Simon, Janis," Evan mumbled.
"Hi, Janis," Simon greeted her. "I'm not as big of Kiss fan
as Evan, but I thought ihey were great tonight, don't ya think?"
"Yeah, it was OK; Anthrax was really cool."
"I can'l believe they played all that Crazy Nights stuff,"
Simon continued, "cuz last year I heard ihey barely did any of
Asylum on the road."
"God, I can't believe anyone listens to Cheap  I
anymore," Janis muttered, picking up the birthday gift off the /
night table and just as quickly putting it back down.
"Simon, can you go on a coke ran?" Evan asked his friend   '
just as he was about to defend the virtues of Rick Ncilson circa-
1987 and Tom Pctersson wanna-be Jon Brandt. Simon took
some change from Evan and left the two alone in the room.
"Asshole," he hissed angrily just as he shut the door behind
him. "I'd never leave a Cheap Trick show, ever!"
When Simon returned tothc room the lights were slill on, but
Evan was passed tnit on his bed and Janis had disappeared. Simon
cracked the coke and look a long drink, then cued up "Il's Only
Uve" on his trusty Walkman. While the Neilson-Zander lyrics
defeatist lhan defiant, he slill found comfort, [
especially in the second verse:
! forgotten point/ On Ihe si
New York or was il lxwidon town/Maybe we were daydreaming f
out Icxid/ Or maybe w
Simon shut off the light, then ihe tape, and rolled o\
he couldn't sleep.
> __tP^°_r£L_gs QBACELAMD
I 2SO RICHARDS
WEDNESDAYS
RAGGAE,$0<A & WORLD BEAT
WITH D.J.GEORGE BARRETT
THURSDAYS
CLUB 1040
0JITHD.J.D0UIDHH0JHES
DRinK SPGCIRLS
FPikDRVS
SnniC TPiRHCE
WITH 0. J.PH.LTH
SATURDAYS
BEYOND THE DANCE
WITH D.J.NOAH
RENT GRACELAND
FOR PRIVATE PARTIES MONDAY TUESDAY OR SUNDAY
CALL 688-2648
THE ORIGINAL
DR.  MARTENS
LADIES  AND   MENS   FOOTWEAR
DIRECT    FROM    ENGLANI
with BOUNCING SOLES for EXTRA COMFORT
available at
the Dr. Marten's Stores
1208 Robson Street ,,/,„„,- 689-4998
Metrotown Shopping Centre phone 431-7993
Aritzia
1068 Robson Street phone 684-3251
Oakridge Shopping Centre phone 261-2202
Metrotown Shopping Centre phone 435-7975
Park Royal Shopping Centre phone 926-7666
Hille Off -Kerrisdale
2125 West 41st Avenue phone 266-9177
£M^W&B
DEPROGRAMMERS!
**j*Jn    ITCH
SPARKMARKER
DEPRa^wm
WASH YOUR BRAIN j
^ALSO AVAILABLE : TRANSCENDENTAL LITERATURE,
STICKERS, POSTERS AND COOL KRISHNA GEAR
SEND:$20forBRAINWASHER VIDEO FANZINE 2hrVHStape
$6 for DEPROGRAMMERS "WASH YOUR BRAIN" 4 song cassette
To :DEPROGRAMM ERS,Box 50044 South Slope RPO,Burnaby,B.C. ,Canada,V5J 5G3
PRICES INCLUDE POSTAGE AND HANDLING.
Please sendS A. S E. for complete list of stuff and prices. MrWWMWMtJ*****^^
ATTENTION
ARTISTS & RETAILERS
Artists: earn money from your idees snd designs.
Retailers: we heve hundreds of designs.
U-DO-IT SCREENPRINTING OFFERS:
:Contract printing   (speedy delivery)
:Save money (print it yourself)
:Free workshops for groups of 3
: Mobile training
:Wholesale prices on T- shirts and supplies
: Marketing dept. (help you sell your designs)
: Hundreds of freelance artists on file
U-DO-IT SCREENPRINTING
VANCOUVER,B.C. phone:(604) 254-0068
JJJJ*JJJ^J^JVUUUVUU^JJJJMVJ>JU^^
SUPeRFLY CLOTHING!
jivernesH - PenveRT - xesaivi but-
tox - iviossiivio - aiRWaLK • vaNs
• sjoeecK • LiiviPies • HeaDFace
SNowBoaRos & accessoRies;
morrow - saNTaCRUz - LaMan
• LIB    TGCH    -    JOVRIDe   •    aiRWaLK - BaRFOOT - TeaM BUT
Tax   Heaw   duty.   wareR-
PROOF, FUNGTIONaL SNOW
BOaRO CLOTHING -US BD
B O a R D s
THIS  aND  COOL TUN6S TOO!
2951 W 4th Ave
v 739-9791
wmiMmmmoa
Nov. 24-28    GUITAR SHORTY AND THE
DEMONS
Dec. 1-2     RUSSEL JACKSON
Dec. 3-5    JIM BYRNES
Dec. 7-12    AMOS GARRETT
Dec. 14-19    CASH McCALL w/ THE
DEMONS
Dec. 21-23    OLIVER AND THE ELEMENTS
Dec. 24-25    CLOSED. HAPPY HOLIDAYS!
Dec. 26    THE DEMONS JAM
DOHimSMUMH'SMS:
SATURDAY 3-8 PM / SUNDAY BLUES MARATHON JAM 3PM - MIDNIGHT
JACK LA VIN'S JAMS ARE SPONSORED BY MOTHER'S MUSIC AND THE DRUM SHOP
OPEN EACH NIGHT FROM 9:30 PM TO 1:30 AM OPEN WEEKDAYS FROM 11:30 AM <mr -mc
'*•!__.    a^#V '?>
BY RORY, CRAIG, AND HELEN G.
mal round of Jokes For Beer (someone oughta tell Paul McKenzie
that he's got a lame sense of
humour), MC Chris hauled his 165
lb. tanned, fit and muscular bod
(hey, if he showed it with a bit of
class he'd get into the Twilight
Zone for free...) up on stage and
announced the evening's last performers: "Blaise Pascal." Blaise
are possibly the heirs to the Vancouver indie loser-rock throne
(seat? stool? ceremonial baseball
cap?) with appropriately obscure
influences in Codeine, Pavement,
Sebadoh, Galaxie 500 and the Velvet Underground. I've seen them
before (sometimes inspiring and
this time it was not. The quiet
songs came across well, bul when
the intensity increased, the band
fell apart.
for the vocalist and guitarist, their
attempts to co-ordinate with the
keyboard texture were well meaning, although weak in depth. The
potential was there for a strong
combination, but the harmonies
were not entirely on par with the
of   I
grammed sc
inds.
Brand New Unit, defied
the senses with their drive
and energetic punch. Concentration on their overall
sound seems a high priority for BNU and it comes
across quile concisely and
definitely. Seeing this band
straighi-edge or, simply,
harder edged bands. The
tight drumming accentuated the band n
lively and the guitars i
This month we have reports from
three different reporters who covered the wrap-up of the preliminary rounds: Rory Tait, last year's
in Shindig reporter, gives us
his jaded view of the last night of
Round Two; Craig Sahlin, novice
and blow us away next time. Ad
Craig Sahlin
Monday November 9
This week's contestants were an
unusually even match. The first
found out that that's whal a group
of crows is called. Cool.). Aside
from a few too-Eighlie's sounding moments, ansy names and inane
chit-chat (due to nerves, 1 think), 1
liked this band. I overheard a guy
it ihe i
table si
ing
best shitty band h
hile, but they deserve less faint
raise lhan that. The lead singer
is a great voice, wilh a good
inge. If he focusses more on ihe
rowls and the band keeps up its
ix of melody and hard stuff I'll
ke ihem even more. Stage pres-
lce needs some work too. Happy
i sec a band that's persevered and
tiproved a lot! Congrats on tak-
>t place, guys,
he Real Mackenziesiook
stage next. Now here's a band
ence. I love men in kilts so I might
be biased but the whole crowd
seemed to love them as well. They
even fed the masses! I tried the
haggis they offered and it was
GREAT. Problem is the Real
Mackenzies only do traditional and cover songs
which is not really what
Shindig is about—allhough
the reworking of Twisted
Sister deserves some points
for originality—thus the
band was disqualified.
I lope they play around town
again soon—for pure en-
band (this includes yelling
"you're all a bunch of bas-
! Ideal
ce).
After a long break
JokesFfor Beer started.
Nothing memorable, except a lot more sheep-
fucking jokes than usual.
Finally The Many played.
By this lime I was feeling
pretend thai my patience
ralher
al this point. The Many
were the lasl friendly band,
despite being the band wilh
(andyoungcst)fncnds ihere.
, people jus
. The
and u
na\ have been talented bull
tight a,
rail
: "' ■
Suns g
Some final sv
enjoy able and enlightening evening
overall, bul disheartening lo see yel
another nigdt of Shindig with nol a
single woman on stage. Girls, where
Helen G.
By press time, Shindig will be
heading into the exciting and climactic territory of Semi-Final Ac-
lion. Head on down lo ihe Railway
for hours of suspense and the entertaining musical offerings of todays
Honest New Bands. '
gel: I
is year's
1 Ihe Cru
December
d Fir
ilephant, Frida;
will
SCIEN-TERRIFIC XMAS GIFT... SHOP AT ZULU, TRACK, SCRATCH   O
MFREE SNOT OF JESUS M
BOOGERS OF OUR LORD & MESSIAH
SCIENTIFIC FACT! J& BIBLICAL PROOF!
JESUS
CHRIST'
LORD OF
LORDS!
SCIENCE PROVEN! *3* SCRIPTURAL PROOF!
SEND FIVE DOLLAR LOVE GIFT TO
INTERNATIONAL SECULAR ATAVISM
IN CANADA P.O. BOX 1776 STN." A" VANCOUVER, B.C. V6C-2P7
IN U.SA.: P.O. BOX 69243, PORTLAND,  OREGON, 97201
r£n$
SCIENTIFIC FACT! SCIEN-TERRRIFF
FOR FREE STICKERS OF THIS AD SEND A S.A.S.E.
DECEMBER I hile     glancing     over
W   playlists kindly sent to
CiTR by Mak ofthe great
French fuzz outfit, the
I I Cryptones, a name poked
up from the charts that a mere mortal
could only gasp in amazement at. ..the
Vancouvers! What? A Spanish band
called the Vancouvers charting on
French Radio! No joke. Soon, an
interview by mail was arranged, and
here are the results; a joint Canada
Post/Spanish Mail/Discorder ven-
Nardwuar: Who are you?
Vancouvers: Angel Cubero, 21,
cowbell and bass guitar. Kiki "Tornado" Bruno, 21, drums. Juan
Santaner, 25, guitar. Marta Romero,
er... approaching 30, vocals.
Could the Vancouvers be, ahh,
PUNK?
Vancouvers: In a way. There are
many sides to punk, and we guess
we fit in some of them.
Why are you called the
Vancouvers? Did ya know there
once was a group called Bobby
Taylor and the Vancouvers?
Vancouvers: We had spent hours,
days, months, racking our brains,
and finding a name that satisfied
everybody seemed impossible. Finally we agreed on something: the
name had to have no meaning, and
the best thing we could do was lo
bring a map of N. America and
choose an appealing name. VANCOUVER was elected, and we
added the -s.
THEVANCOUVERS
By Nardwuar, the Human Serviette
wehav
What do you know about Vancouver? Can you name any Vancouver bands?
Marta: 1 know there's a building cal led
Queen Elizabeth Hall that was designed by a Greek.
Juan: I learned that the Spanish female golf team was second in the
International Amateur Golf Championship recendy held in Vancouver.
Apart from that, we know ii
was an Indian settlement in the beginning, and that many Chinese
people live there today.
As to the bands, we can name
the Smugglers, Nomeansno and
DOA.
How would you feel about a band
from Vancouver being called The
Madrids?
Vancouvers: It would be fun. We
could tour together.
Yvonne Decarlo of the Munsters
TV show is from Vancouver, so
wouldn't it be natural that the
Vancouvers would be signed to the
great Munster label out of Madrid?
Vancouvers: It's a good label. As a
matter of fact, we gave Munster a
song for the Alex Chilton Tribute.
Vancouvers, the group, and
Vancouver, the city. Like Kirsten
Barnes of Vancouver recently won
2 gold rowing medals in Spain,
home of the Vancouvers! Did the
Olympics touch the Vancouvers
in any special way?
Vancouvers: We watched ihem wilh
religious fervour. Our hearts stirred
with every medal lhal our homeland
won, and we were driven to tears in
thecaseofMadridaldlcles like young
Alfonso, tde prodigious footballer.
Are there any facists still kicking
around Spain?
Vancouvers: Legions, especially in
Who are the other happening
combos in Espagnol?
Vancouvers: You mean singing in
Spanish? We find it difficult to
warp our mother tongue into R' n' R;
very few people can do it well, so
the Spanish-sung scene is, in general terms, appalling. There are,
however, outstanding bands like
LOS ENEMIGOS, CEREBROS
EXPRIMIDOS (SQUEEZED
BRAINS) or BULLETS. As for
those who sing in English, we recommend THE PLEASURE
FUCKERS, LOS CLAVOS, THE
JOKE, CANCER MOON....
Who is the most famous Spanish
band ever?
Vancouvers.:  LOS  CANARIOS
("Get On Your Knees") or LOS
Who is the
band, ai
lated Span
why?
Juan and Angel: LA DECADA
PRODIGIOSA, because they are
but pathetic female and pscudomale
ballerinas (if something) tdat have
devoted iheir lack-of-talenl-and-
deccncy-and-all lo the consistent and
serial massacre of every old hit they
can pick and cdain lo their potpourris.
Marta: HEROES DFX SILENCIO,
because lhal poor fellow, ihe singer,
really believes he is Jim Morrison,
North American bands can tour
Europe and make tons of money.
Does this make Spanish/F.uro-
pean bands feel jealous?
Vancouvers: The N.A. bands the
Vancouvers could be "jealous" aboul
don't make precisely tons of money,
and wc would only be too happy if
tdey did, because wc love tdem. Bul
maybe older European bands are
Madrid,   home   town   of   the
Vancouvers?
Vancouvers: Not that weknow about.
Who was the first N.A. group/solo
Maria: The Ramones
Juan: Roger McGuini
Angel: Alex Chillon.
Who was the last N.A. group ya
Juan and Maria: The Rauncd Hands.
Angel: Young Fresh Fellows.
wilh TAV FALCO for his last
European tour. Poor Tav.
Who from N.A. tours Spain the
Vancouvers: The Ramones.
Will the Vancouvers ever play
Vancouver, B.C., Canada?
Vancouvers: Sure. As Nancy Sinatra
once said: "All you gotla do is pick
up the phone, tell me you're alone
(They'd love lo hear from real
Vancouverites) al AV. Filipinas; 50
28003 Madrid; Spain. And, believe
iiornoi.iheirnewLPeni*/^™-
lial sporls a crab on tde cover,
mucd like tde giant, steel crablike water-fountain outside tde
Vancouver Planetarium. Furlder-
more, to top it all off Quintessence used to be tde name of a
cool Vancouver label/store (Now
Zulu) tdat released among otders,
DOA and tde Pointed Sticks. LONG
LIVE VANCOUVER-SPANISH
CONNECTIONS!
I    _.    I ulture. Culture dave just come
I (        I out with a new album called
V*"   jtr-in^o/a Dove for Shanachie,
I I whothey'vebeendoingrecords
with for some 15 years now. I've seen
them once before at the Greal Hall in
Toronto and they were live, good bass
beats pounding out, but failing to excite
an apathetic and even somewhat hostile
crowd. So, I show up at the Commodore
for soundcheck and get some kinda
antagonistic type stares from the white
rasta groupies who are grouped around
a table close to fhe stage. After a while
Joeseph Hill finally comes on stage and
I settle back for one fine soundcheck.
His deep voice makes the room boom as
he freestyles on the mike. "Reggggaaaae
FFllllllleeex, Regggggaaaeee
FLLLLEEX, FLLLEEX, FLEEXXX.
FinNNNE, FINNEE..." Hill goes on for
a while and fascinates me in a way that
hasn't dit me before with the depth and
power of his voice.
Afterwards, Joseph strolls down
onto the floor and I approach him about
tde interview wdicd dad been set up
prior. He's into it but de wants some rest
Backstage, rasta woman cuts up
buds...click, click. Josepd tokes
ally...the flight over tired him
somewhat. The presence of the groupie is
more than a little disconcerting but we all
try to work together. Joseph is a little
tired, irritated...monosyllabic.
Discorder:  Do  you  like  touring  in
Canada?
Joseph Hill: Yeh, I enjoy it. More than a
lot of olher c
By Anna
a little
about to head off so
hightails it overand wants to frog-march
Joseph off to smoke some ganga. I'm a
little peeved, some kinda sacrament this
woman is making things into. Joseph
seems a little confused so we agree to go
backstage where he can smoke and do
e same time. Deal.
So, where are you are you going to be
playing in the next few months?
After here in Vancouver we go lo I..A.,
San Francisco, New York, we cover it ihe
whole works.
Tell me about your latest album.
Well, we worked on it over the regular
period. Got it out in time. As far as I know
the people love it.
Who did you have work with on it with
you? Any special musicians anybody
from outside of the group?
A lot of people in and oul. People like
Dandy Junior, Winston Wright, and them
Are you working on anything n«
anything interesting?
Always working...like an old draft-hor
Its interesting to just do some work, that's
culture
cinating.    Nothing else
...but writing music.
How do you react to
dancehall and dub, and people like
Shabba Ranks?
Every body have got their part to play bul as
far as I know, I have no intention to emerge
into no slack type music. I can't be bothered,
it' s not worth it. I'm serious, I think some of
the people who arc mak ing noise sdould jusl
shut up. Just shut up, cool it off.
The name Joseph Hill means a lot to a lot
of people. How does that make you feel?
WeU, I feel just as proud of it as mum.
Do you have a message for people?
All the lime, all the time. People should just
slay together, and remember Armmbe,
Arrumbc.
Last week in Vancouver we had a rally
for the National Organisation for the
Reform of .YIariju;m:> ! legislation. About
350 people attended. What are your
opinions on marijuana legislation?
Brave, Strong.... See, the same way rum is
breaking families, breaking dcarts, and
breaking up lives it is being celebrated as
something that is good. Why not marijuana?
Marijuana is somelhing that is good.
So you thing that alcohol is way more
detrimental than marijuana?
By far.
What do you think ofthe new popularity
of crack, heroin, and stuff like that?
What' syouropinion on thcRastifarian
movement right now? Is it still vitaland
Heehhhh! Be we ever essential, we be
everessential. Because there is no possible
way you can be without the presence ol
the most I. no way. You have to be on
your positive ground.
Did you go to the Carribanna Festival
this year in Toronto?
Not really Caribbana bul places that are
Have you been to Carribana?
I don't even remember the names of plac
Anything you want to say to V
Well, I don't even love to" talk. I leave the
talking lo the DJs and I sing.
After the amazing energy of the
met up with other Culture members,
Kenneth Dayes and Albert Hall. Both
powerful and nice men—Kenneth has
some funky-ass fell cone perched on his
snaky dreads—we dialled as they showed
me the very polite and obviously very
dedicated persona that infects all the
members of Culture.
DECEMBER   fe BY ERIC
FlEXYOllRHEM>
■ I reenday are more punk than mosl
I  f^ I punk or hardcore bands around.
I   \"T| I remember saying this to myself
I when I first saw Greenday two
I I years ago. If you've been among
the lucky to hear any Greenday,
chances are lhal you know where I'm coming
Greenday play in a style most would
call pop-punk. Wilh even more pop to it
than punk, Greenday play catchy songs;
memorable songs. Hell... maybeyou could
even call it "fluffy-girl-pop stuff." But it's
more lhan music. It's more important than
a sound. It's an attitude I'm describing.
Greenday live to play their music, an unequalled passion that fills their lives. It's
something real. It's not about money or
fame or girls, they just do what they whal
to do and keep on doing it. This, my friend,
is what 1 suongly admire them for.
Greenday arc: {:;S
Billy — guitar/vocals
Mike — bass
Tre — drums
Discorder — So, how many timvs hasr
Grccndaj played Vancouver »»»? Arr
things getting bettor for ymi with «very
time vou com*; here?
Billy I think fftif Ihtos *><>*: Wftr-I.iye.1 m
Victoria as well, »rtd it was ihe lirsl lime
that we've played art actual duh. We've
played all-ages there but flirt lime] we
played at this place called flarpo's and n
was a really. really Rood show.
Tre — I gol a bike oul or it! A noa'JIy whoop
de old Schwinn wild a stt&shjfi on it
cdopper. 1 gol n [or ttvr ffc*tn.&otne kid.
Billy — l.:.ni glad wc got lo play ihc Nappv
Dugout Jj^tfeccau^of Ihc name.'trct'nday
at ihe Nairpy Dugout souni
What is your response to people who say
that Greenday's songs have absolutely no
socially redeeming qualities, that you have
nothing valid to say, and that you're just a
"fluffy-girl-pop band"?
Tre — We say, "ha ha..."
Mike — They haven't read all the lyrics.
Billy — Let them think what they want to
think . We write what we write and if they
don't like it, to hell with them! We're not
going to cater to people. We're not going
lo sit around and ask "Why don't you like
us?". Our lyrics are obviously about somelhing, you've just got to take a look at
yourself more lhan looking at things on the
outside, like politics. There's a lot of personal politics and persqnalppinions in our
oundspnftty ci>ol to
lh.it wax a cool show, there »crc just
over 200 kids there. That's pretty
amazing* remember the firs, time you
guys played here, there was almost no
one there!
HI i IK 1: seems people lend logo to more
shows here
Are the rumors true that t'n>end;n is
the only band people will go out to sec at
Gilman Street? (Gilman Street is a great
vounteer run all-ages cluh in Berkeley.)
Billy — No, but we arc practically the only
band in the punk scene in Berkeley now.
Everbody seems lo be breaking up this year.
This year there's been five or six different
bands lhal have broken up; the bigger bands
like Blatz, Mr. T. Experience, Jack Acid,
PaxlonQuigley. Jawbreaker is going lo break
up soon. Fifteen is on shakcy ground.
- 1 think our songs are
grasp because nol everybody knows what
is going on in a poltical sense. People
IeBOW how- to get along with each other, and
we try to get on more of a personal level
With people
Vmt' re not consciously writing these songs
us "thi« is what we're going to do," it just
happen*?
Mike *, More or less. Wc don'l sit and say
"We're going lo write a song aboul a girl
tod.iy." II it conies up, (hat's the way we
werefccling Sl.the time.
How long do vou see Greenday continuing as a band for" l>o you want it to
continue on to be a long term thiofc?
Billy —We just i.ikeifd.n by d.iyand nol
try lo build tip expectations;
Tre — More like month bv month, actually....
Mike — Everyone likes .to predict lhal we
arc going lo break-up. Thai's why the band
has never been a "bus.new.:thing," il's a|f;
"music Sling " Foi example, people dsk us
when our next album is coming our. we're
B,li>       We're do.ng Mui w-'redrt.ng
Mosl ofthe pw»plc lhat ,n.i\ we suck aren't
reafh doing wh_i ihey'redotnc li'sb.tsiclls
jusl a jealousy nip.
Mike — Ya', we're jusl takingit show by
Tre — air van brokc.tod.is and I'luebcrrs
fixed it in an hour and ''twenty minutes.
Mike — Blueberry is roadie number two.
Milkbonc and Blueberry, that's Ben andScotl.
I sort of hate doing interviews...totally.
Although the finished product usually
makes it all worthwhile.
Billy — It's really hard to "read" an interview. Sometimes people say things with
different tones of voice, and its not actually what they're saying. If someone says
somebody sucks you can't tell if they're
being sarcastic or serious. Sometimes I'll
read something I've said and think "whal
an asshole, did I actually say that!?!"
I think the hardest thing to do in an
interview is have it really mean anything. It might mean something, but
maybe that's just how you felt just at
that time. You may change your mind an
hour later.
Billy — You can also think of that in the
terms of the different stages in your life:
something 1 may have said when I was
seventeen isn't going to apply when I'm
21.
The finished product has a sense of permanence. Here's this tangible thing sitting
there with pictures...someone can read
it and think to themselves "Cool, I think
I'll check out Greenday next time they
come to town. I think I'll check out a
Greenday record."
Billy — If you think about it, say ten years
from now, you could have a little collection of quotes that all add up to one thing.
You can kick back and go "Oh...that's
whal they're all about."
When you return home after touring do
you have jobs to go back to, or is the
band doing enough that you can devote
your time to just the band?
Mike — We don'l work. We're not rich,
bul we don't work. We live off of playing
jin Greenday]. I nisi hope we don't burn
out In each other Thai Vibe one thing I
[ear.  burning out./-;-';'"'
Is kerplunk! doing well? Are \ uu Sdr-  :
prised with how popularyou are?
Billy-   Il's going&ood w far, t*\ c gomo i
complaints. We've got u> keep on looking
forward, keep doing what we're doing, but  :
also look lo different audiences
Since you are doing this day b\ day,
month by month, seeing how things go
along, do you have an} plans for the big
major label push?
Billy —That's similaTtowbalisvassaying
before, where one thingyou say three-years
ago isn't always gong to match, up ■vith
what you say later on; the circumstance*
arc different. Three years ago 1 wasa'snot-
nosed I itlle punk in high school just shooting
off my mouth. Now I've got a lot more
responsibilities. I'm not saying we're going
lo sell out or anything, but you come to
:  realize idat you don't want to go to work
"- evcrvday. People don't want to have a
lainc |ob,they want to do what they want to
do. Some people will to go to school for
twenty years and still be unhappy with
whal they're doing.
I've been playing music almost all of
rm life and this is what I'm going to be
doing for the rest  of my  life.  So  who
■.■.■ilcnows what my opinion on the music
i0d«stry will be like ihrec years from
now, it's something lhat's just not
^jjjjgjdictable.
;::'1vliikc — I'm not saying we're leaning
towards that or anything but I see a lot of
people that aren't punk, who won't even go
punk shows, who like our music. We go
to punk shows, punk shows are rad, but
there's a lot of punks sneering and spitting
on us screaming "fuck-you!"... sometimes
Billy — There's no way we're going to
limilourselvesloone small groupof people,
that's just stupid . Everyone has a righl to
Mike — We're totally ridiculous.
Billy — The things lhat we're talking aboul
We're nol into this...
Mike — We don't even think about the
band, we just play music and hang oul.
^TS^gSuS*^^ ^/rlrYlM/V\m
TfiAA*"m
>^J gjl
rsk isk It
e eggs i
o the b.
9 a fro,
o this
By the time you read this, I, Helen,
will be in a new kitchen. My then
roommate makes a wicked chickpea curry so watch for that and
other bachelor girl recipes in months
to come. We'll be thinking of you
over the holidays—have a swell
time and don't miss the Charlie
Brown Christmas special!
In the world of cooking, Mrs.
Beeton is my heroine. Peg Bracken
is a close runner-up; less classic
but more contemporary. Think how
happy I was then to find in
Bracken's The I Hate to Cook
Almanack: A Book of Days—Recipes & Relief for the Reluctant Cook
and Harried Houseperson(\976)
a recipe from Mrs. Beeton's All
About Everything (1969). Instead
of eggnog for Christmas, try
Rumfustian, guaranteed to liven
up your evening and "grow hair
on the sidewalk"!?
Rumfustian, a drink greatly
approved.
Ingredients:
12 eggs
1 quart strong beer
1 pint gin
1 bottle of sherry
1 stick of cinnamon
12 lumps of sugar
peel of 1 lemon
add the gin.Meanwhile, boil the
bottle of sherry with the cinnamon, nutmeg, sugar and lemon
peel combined. As soon as the
mixtures reach boil, mix both together. Serve quile hot.
Now for a recipe of a different
sort; first you bake and then you
play. To make your very own' clay'
dreidel for Hanukkah (adapted from
Judith Hoffman Corwin's Jewish
Holiday Fun) the process is much
like the homemade playdough you
may or may not have made as a
kid. You will need:
2 cups of flour
1 cup salt
This should make enough dreidels
for you and your friends. You i
have a Hanukkah block party!
Mix the flour and salt together in
a large bowl. Add the water a little
at a time, mixing it in. When all the
water is used up, knead the dough
until smooth.
blue acrylic paint
ablack fine-line felt-tipmarker
Make a 4" ball from the dough.
Shape the dough until il lakes the
form of the dreidel (as shown).
The bottom of Ihe dreidel must
come to a point and the lop should
be narrow enough lo be easily
held. Try to shape the dreidel so
that it is balanced, this will make
it spin easier and better.
Bake in a preheated oven al
300°F until lightly browned. (Approximately 30 minutes bul check
often to make sure the edges aren't
burning.)
ies, poker chips etc. The four letters on the dreidel are nun, gimme I,
hay and shin. Take turns spinning
the dreidel. If it lands on nun, you
don't get anything. If it lands on
j_jntf
nel, you
all  the
Allow to cool and then paint
wilh a coal of acrylic. (It doesn't
have to be blue if you can't find
any or you want to experiment.)
Dry. Then, wilh the marker, draw
each letter on the proper side of
Ihe dreidel (i.e. in the order illus-
ted). Let paint dry, shellac the
dreidel, dry again and presto!—
lime to gamble.
half of them.
Finally, if it lands on shin, you
have to give back half your winnings.
This year Hanukkah starts at
sundown of December 19, and wilh
the 25th, as
by one day. With
eight days for Hanukkah and twelve
for Chris
bands. But hey, I've
'ou (oik plenty
of chances  to  bring
Ifyou wanna tell me about
great Valentine's Day
ill at 822-3017 or mail it lo
me c/o Discorder. Have a good
break and don't spend too much
money!
Records & Stuff We Sell:
75. HIGH-BACK CHAIRS    ^iT* ®
74. HIGH-BACK CHAIRS    2-song r   ®
76. SHUDDER TO THINK 2-song r   ®
73. CIRCUS LUPUS 2-Songr   ®
72.   SEVERIN 'Acid to Ashes + Rust to Dust''* ©
71. NATION OF ULYSSES **"■»...■■• ©
69. JAWBOX Novelty* ©
68. GRAY MATTER Thog'f ©
67. SHUDDER TO THINK  ..-.a** ©
66. LUNGFISH No.65&istE.R   ©
65. LUNGFISH    Talking Songs for Walking*   ©
64. BEEFEATER        Both LR* + 2 Songs    ©
63. CIRCUS LUPUS     Super Genius'* ©
62. JAWBOX       Tongues'/'Ones & Zeros' 7"     ®
61. NATION OF ULYSSES  3-Songr   ®
Price Guide^including postage, in
U.S.A.
3.00
6.00
7.00
8.00
7"
12" EP
LP
CD
MaxiCD   10.00
4.00
8.00
9.00
9.00
11.00
US. $:
Airmail
6.00
I 1.00
12.00
11.00
13.00
3819 BEECHER ST. NW, WASH., D.C. 20007
NOV-DEC
/(MjoW
IBYT--IC   UNDEICEOUND
RENEGADE SAINTS
CRAWDADDIES
REVEREND
HORTON
HEAT
WITH SPECIAL GUESTS
ADMISSION $5.00
THE CONFUSED
ANGRY BABIES
wm- BELLYACHERS
AND TWO FROM LA.
PIECES OF LISA
andGUEST
BLACKHAPPY
INFLATABLE SOULE
SWEATY NIPPLES
VIC CHESNUTT
WEDS DEAD NIGHT
LIVE & CANNED DEADHEAD FUN
OPEN AT 3PM
SEVEN DAYS A WEEK
HALF-PRICE HAPPY HOUR
7PM - 9PM
HMi_«
3PM  TIL 9PM
FREE POOL
3RM   "TIL feRIVI
CIGARETTES $2.75
FOOD - VIDEO - DARTS
1305 11 TH STREET
BELLINGHAM, WASH
EXIT 250. 1-5 SOUTH
I UU6) 734-1 53V |
DECEMBER Se"-si5toDlsco^  "W
e just won the Canadian Music Video Award
for best alternative video. Tankhog has been
on the cover and we sell more records in one
city than they do in all of Canada," reasons
Front Line Assembly vocalist/keyboardist,
Bill Leeb on why they should've had the
cover of this issue of Discorder. "We've
been on the cover of almost every other magazine." The
guy does have a point!
The photo shoot takes place a few hours later
behind the Soho Billiards, our rendezvous spot. Bill
and FLA live percussionist, Chris Peterson, shoot
some mean pool and look incongrous at the fashionable Soho in the heart of Yaletown. Bill is imposingly
tall and Chris looks like an industrial death rocker
extraordinaire. Rhys Fulbcr, the other half of FLA,
shows up and the shoot begins.
The editor's idea of having the band wear Santa
toques (hey, it is the Christmas issue) goes over with
a thud, but drawn in snowflakes will be tolerated. Bill
jokes that he'll come to my home if Santa hats are
drawn on him and that he knows what my car looks
like - Mr. Discorder editor, my Ufe is in your hands!
The shoot takes all of ten minutes (just the way
the band likes 'em) with Rhys, Chris and Bill doing
the usual industrial gay poses, but they make fun at
how mean they look. They take their music, but not
themselves, seriously.
Rewind the tape to July, to an interview done with
Bill and Rhys a few weeks before FLA's North
America tour. Taking place in Bill's Robson apartment, almost directly above the apartment of Skinny
l'iij>p> 's Cevin Crompton, the surroundings arc spot-
s  litr
black: I
(rings
ablcs, including a Throbbing Gristle 7" and all
's releases neatly lined up on display; artwork
;cr and 1 Braineater, needless to say. The apart -
mirrors Bill  : everything under control and
whal he's doing and has no hesitations; ihc
a proverbial rock.
Division, Wire and Killing Joke as his favorite bands
back then. Joy Division and Killing Joke's use of
synthesisers got Bill on the right track "then Fad
Gadget was the first electro record I bought that I was
really impressed with. I think that's where the real
musical roots established themselves from. Also.Spk,
Neubauten, and all that played a vital role."
Bill has been working in music for more than ten
years now, with Skinny Puppy till '86 and as FLA
since then. I remember going to the Black Market
Store on Granville mall in 1986 and seeing Bill
working there. I shook my head ruefully and wondered to my now ex-boyfriend how Bill could actually
leave Skinny Puppy? Around that same time, my ex
and I, nonchalantly went inlo Discus Records in the
old Pacific Centre mall, pretending to look at records
but really lo sneak looks at Ogre who was employed
there. He was putting up a Pointer Sisters display. It
is this sen se of history that I want to ask Bill about; the
stories that are part of Vancouver music lore that fans
in the rest of the world can only read about.
Bill recalls that at the time it seemed like nothing
was happening. "That was at the end of Images [In
Vogue], who were considered an alternative band in
Vancouver, (laughs). It was! And all the bands we
liked, ihc so-called 'Wild Planet' bands, like Portion
Control, Legendary Pink Dots and all that, were in
Europe. That's when we were writing to all that stuff
because there was nothing here. The firsl lime we
[Skinny Puppy] played, it was in this underground
plac
We h
all>  h
st happen I
When Pi
ing drums from ihc ripe old age of five. I
down on the couch while I quiz Bill aboul what he did
before making music.
"1 bought lots of records. I was just as preoccupied wilh collecting records and searching out ihc
whole underground scene as I am now preoccupied m
doing it. So I was obsessed with these kinds of things
I used to get boxes of mail and cassettes, people I'd
never heard of. Back then it was more underground;
it's sort of excepted now."
Bill is a self-taught musician, although he dabbled with the violin during his formative years back in       enro
progression  from the days  of punk  and  lists Joy       colic
nged the lock! 150 people
turned oul and il was like a big secretive gig Thai was
Rhys feels that Vancouver isn't really that supers, that's about as far as ilgocs.
lbs. There's people here who like
.n now." Bill agrees, "It's strange.
re they get the smallest audience
ofthe wholetour. But, yet, people arc always supportive ol DOA. Vancouver's a strange and unusual
place. Yet Nitzer Fob packed il in!"
We've hit a sore spol here. Puppy and FLA have
pul Vancouver on ihc musical map, a fact lhal not
many people here acknowledge. Both bands have a
loyal following in Curopc and the Stales; in fact, I
witnessed an example of this in Chicago in early '91.
FLA were doing an autograph signing at the Wax
Trax record store and the turnout was pretty impressive. Bill and Rhys handled the crowd professionally
and chatted amiably with their fans.
The one thing readily apparent about FLA is their
treatment towards their fans: they always have time
for them, unlike some people I've run into in the
course of my writing career. Back in Chicago, Bill,
Rhys, Carylann  (Bill's  fiance), Andy  Dunkley (a
ing for FLA to show up for an interview; BiUand Rhys
looked at each other, "uh oh." 'Diey were genuinely
concerned and as soon as we arrived at the Cabaret
Metro they phoned the radio station and did an on-air
interview. Some bands might've said "fi|cik it" and
not bothered. Not FLA.
The excitement of going on tour (which ended
successfully here on Sept. 18) was humourously highlighted by Bill's story of trying to gel mopey for the
video wall al the rear of the stage Somehow 20 T. V.' s
got lost on the lour. "I talked lo the record Company
for an hour," Bill says on a roll. "It took an hour of
selling my soul! (laughs) It wasn't easy; It's only
$16,000 (pretending to write a cheque). I had the gall
to phone those guys, a lot of people wouldn 't have had
the nerve to demand, 'You know, if we don*lhave this
we can't tour.' They spent a lol of money onus for this
year. All the remixes... have you added n all up?" he
asks Rhys gleefully. Rhys recalls the money spent,
"lo the plane tickets, to all the cosis of the pr^mo lour,
hotels, food."
There's been anoticeable shift in sound on FLA's
latest Third Mind Record's release Tactical Neural
Implant: the influence of techno
industrial's  lighter
bothers you. It's a great place to w
cities where you get hassled."
"Even in big cities where you
' says Rhys, "like London os
"And it
Bil!
the techno club and before you kr.i
of kids surrounding us."
"Doesn't happen here," snicks
"Well, it helps keeps the old <
it?" Bill says with a laugh, pickuij
zine. "Here's that magazine wherel
tells everybody how he taught me :
thing from the the skin flute to the <ii
why he's so concerned about that:
I mention that he's probably
FLA are doing so well, how dare
Puppy and do well? Bill and Rh:
acknowledging that it's also prob
elaborates, "Rave ( Dave ogilve v
stuff) did an earlier mix and nowi
it I ask.... It's strange how people
Ogre's the way better person."
This is the proverbial can of w:
'uppy. There's been
is conspicuously
Back and Forth II, re i
Talk turns to FLA's dance side pro.
which screws up samples of such Top 40 faves as C &
C Music Factory and Sting. "If that were played on
AM radio, we'd have a hit. We 're nol on a major label,
so that makes the difference."
I ask them how club play of their sluff has gone,
and we hit another torrent of how dull Vancouver is.
"You can't get a scope on anything when you live in
Vancouver, you can't tell how popular things are
here, says Bill. " You live here, you get fuckin'
paranoid before you go on tour because you think
nobody cares about you. And then you gotoyou
FLA
- pla>
a local
Yerything's
:lhcs
right a
all like,
ii feel, 'Oh yeah,
and of awkward
utid  and nobody
thing about burying the hat
s it going to matter in thei
going to matter at all, is it? It' s neve
luck. If you need any help, call u
hope you die in hell, you cocksi
never going lo help you!'"
"You're never going to work ii
Rhys says snidely.
"That's what it was like whi
nothing without us.'" remembers I
proven naysayers wrong. Front L
one of the most highly regarded ou
ably Bill and Rhys' besl music, th
Line Assembly, buttheir Delerium
has released five full lengh CD's an
is full of aural soundscapes that are
live. On first listen the music is si
but as you listen you realize il's an
classical music. People who are
blown away by Delerium. This is w
leave most of their competition be
Oh yeah, if you see them on
they should've worn the Sanla hat
FRONT LINE
ASS  DOUBLE
TROUBLE
! def i-ni-tian
-..;%'dlnew. _^ura>
frorru
$Pl^HW|K!L|S~
BlKCrE
Available in Canada
exclusively from
nt sum If mil
presents
SPIRITA-WEST
...will be performing more acoustic, retrospective shows featuring material from their last five records...
"HOLLOW BODIES TOUR"
vf ...-■■.;,;■<:. r .",;,: :>
BALLROOM
870 GRANVILLE
FRIDAY DECEMBER 11
u.U'i i i i r<
SATURDAY DECEMBER 12:2 SHOWS!
ALL AGES: DOORS 3:30 PM
2nd SHOW: DOORS 8 PM (no minors)
special guests, both evenings:
THE WALTONS
Tickets at: Ticketmaster, Black Swan, Zulu, Track, and «V CONCERT!
Leslie Spit Treeo
December 4th & 5th
The Town Pump-
Leslie Spit Treeo
"Book of Rejection"
7194   1094
cass  l_fec.d. Yo, yo, yo, "Future Rap" iz
back! We're gonna be kickin'
Bartholomew lends a funky no-
solos-in-sight  guitar like  I
^^S
/           ▲
it  every  second  month  from
haven'theard since '73, haha!
/           - •
now on, so you'll have to wait
This  rhythm   section   really
/         / w
twice azlong to get the latest
works under the lyrical bar
/
azgood! Startin' thangsoffis
the  Ultramagnetic   MC's
rages  of  the  likes  of Main
Source,   Gang  Starr,   Grand
Puba and Kool G. Rap. And that's
■Vi__ ■ -
f ■    /
fOtU
Rjs
bomb  Funk   Your  Head   Up
not  all!  They  get  down  inna
(Mercury). I first heard of this
dancehall style behind roughneck
in tha  summer but have  had
MCs Jamalski and Tiger. Add
real problems gettin' a copy
DJs scratchin' on a coupla' tracks,
of it. It seems that their com
the occasional flute, electric or
—■*"'-' • ■ 7~T^r^^^____i
pany didn't want to kick no
gan, extra percussion and live
;-""*-■ a , ^1^™ _■
clout    for    these    hardcore
horns, and you've got an inter
brothas from tha Boogie Down
esting release worth checkin' out.
^f-:
lal^*"
Bronx as this CD was only in
Shinehead has a new al
jr* t     a
£^te&%v\. a?k
the stores for a coupla weeks
bum out—Sidewalk University
V    \
before it was pulled. If ya want
(Elektra)—and it sounds like he's
wrj       . •*"
a \
it, ya golta axe your favorite
been livin' in New York for a
record joint to order a copy.
while cuz he's losin' that Jamai
:*a ' a ,i
!___:    "   .-»         *
Now that's frontin' wack!
can accent of his. Beats Interna
__3___l        ________
Anyways, this Ullramagnelic
tional main man Norman Cook
■•..-
bomb has   been  a   long  lime
comin'   as   their  last  record
came out in *88. That was Criti
did most of the programming on
this release, wilh a few iracks
done by Dave Hall, Claude Evans
BY ADAM SLOAN
cal Bealdown and il definitely
and Bobby Digital, and Bobby    J
Konders. But most all of them
pul Ultramagnclic on lha map
for havin' some of the hard
sound overproduced wilh the fe
Another Latin Timebomb (Atlan
on "Some -O- Next Shit," "I'm
est, dopesi, funkiest beats this
male background singers doin'
tic). ALT, with help from Show
The Man," "Pop 'Nuff Shit," "1
side of tha promised land. Funk
the choruses, violin keyboards.
biz, Poet Tee and Bronz (aka
Need Some Blow," "A Message
Your Head Up, this, the sec
etc.. There are a coupla' good
ALT and The Lost Civilization),
To The B.A.N." and ihe rest of
ond Ultra-release, don'l lake
dancehall tracks, a coupla' cheesy
bust fun rhymes most ofthe lime
'em. Chubb Rock style includes
no shorts neither. T.R. Love,
cover tunes, and a coupla' good
bul get serious on some like "Be
leavin' oul words so il sounds
Ccd Gee, Moe Love and Kool
(by Shinehead standards) raps.
tween The Sheets." "Whal Cha
crazy, talkin' peace, and not be
Keith have taken tha hardcore
Title track "Sidewalk University"
Gonna Do" is a drivin' track with
ing afraid la rap what he warns.
funky  rap beat to the  other
is definitely as close lo street as
the Ice Cube atomic beats that
He also busts his famous nasal
level of tha game, wilh a quick
Shinehead has been, as arc "Start
beat the rest of the tracks on this
style on a coupla' tracks ta keep
ness:   Bomb Squad style inten
An Avalanche, [rouble" and
album silly.
ya chucklin' even  while your
sity, dope scratchy  oldschool
"Friendly Advice."
Yo, Chubb Rock rockin'
gettin' knowledged/Dope!
beats  you  ain'l   never  heard
Eric   B.   and   Rakim,
tha biddox! I haven't heard any
Yo.check tha GP as Grand
befo', and bass you can taste.
kickin' it on wax for over 6 years
earlier works from the Rockster,
Puba has just dropped his solo
Ullramagnelic  homeboy
now, have just released Don'l
but man / Gotta Get Mine Yo!
album Reel To Reel (Elektra). 1
Tim Dog kicks some lyrics on
Sweat The Technique (MCA), a
(Select) is slammin'! Tha big
don't see how this is really a
a coulpa' tracks just as Ultra
well  crafted   12 track  record.
(and I mean BIG) guy can really
solo album because it's basically
guested on lha Dog's release.
While a bit too commercial sound
throw down! Check oul tha crazy
lha Brand Nubians hookin' up
Lyric-wise, these brothas stay
ing for my taste, Ra's delivery is
dope
tha beats! This album is a natu
lop nolch with tongue twistin'
ral no-selloul successor to the
style lhal is unique to lha Ul
lyrics ya just can't louch. Al
*#
Brand Nubian's debut LP One
tra crew.  The Iracks thai re
though I was disappointed
For All which Puba rapped on
ally   shine   arc:   "Bust   The
with their album LelThe
with lha rest of lha crew. Reel
Facts," a track aboul goin' lo
Rhythm    Hit     'Em,
To Reel is actually  simpler
past jams with the Cold Crush
which did nol mca-
. *?x%
than   ils  predecessor,  with
Brothers,  Afrika  Bambaataa,
sure up to their firs,                   f\
JuV
lha  beats consisting of a
Jazzy   Jay,   Charlie   Chase,
!si_ftr aU
i i y
few     well     combined
Melle Mel, The Grandmaster
1   %   ;a-
looped   samples,   a
Caz, Kool Here, Red Alcn and
The   Leader,   this        \ i  \   \ I
^^«Ur          lillle  exira  bass,
ihe rest; "Go 4 Your/.," aboul
one's alright.'Hi-re's        \ \ *   •
llMf^lf              and   nol   much
putlin'   down   lha   gun   and
fightin' wit your hands; "Make
hooks here, there, and
..««!
H^1_Bc^-       some  knowl-
Il   Happen,"   a   simple   hype
everywhere, and the
>v/
4       |Bm|        edge, wisdom
track; and "Moe Love On The
1 And 2," an instrumental wilh
dope!                                               ag|
'jgKKSjr^'
It:**       iSB'           ending or.
a   hellavalolla   noise    from
Erie        B's
cracklin' records.
busied out a whole                <|Jp*i'j|
tracks
Next in line is ihc Brand
bunch of greal             _S!_r^        1
like
New Heavies' second release,
breaks from ihe          J__r
Heavy Rhyme Experience: Vol.
jazz part of his        %$F
I (Delicious Vinyl). This is a
record eollec-      <S
slight departure from their first
tion to give this album a differ
release, BNU, on which ihey
ence. Check out "Relax Wilh Pep," 1
# -m&fcm
"Whai's On Your Mind," ihe title
no-computcrs-allowcd instru
track, and of course "Know
mental tracks with guest N'Dea
Davenport. After being sampled
by Tim Dog and a coupla' other
. The Ledge."
ALT is a brolha
rapper from lha West
"a- 4  .,0'e?'i:
rappers, and lettin' labclmale Def
Coast who used to                      mML
m       ■*  m
Jef rap over one of their iracks
do lha beats  for                       W^
from their firsl alburn and re-
oldschool rapper
"Proper Education," but he's still
mainly concerned with skins.
Time to move on, I say....
EPMD are still kickin' tha
ballistics in their own way, and
have just released album number four, Business Never Personal (Def Jam). Another comeback of sorts, as I thought their
third record, Business As Usual,
didn't cut it like their two Fresh
Records releases Strictly Business or Unfinished Business did.
Haha! I just had to get all that
"business"' in! Back lo tha PG,
this release must be pretly dope
'cause somebody stole it from
tha station before I could properly listen to il! I did get enough
of a dose, though, lo know that
they are back on track with a
fresh vibe. If you like the "Cross-
:r" 12" off lha record, then by
Jan Kincaid
drums inna JB Clyde
Funky Drummer
all r
oget y
Plus we jusl got their latest single,
"Headbanger," and its got a real
Jeep thunderin' remix on it to
make your woofers get stuck.
Hit tha road new jack, Public Enemy is back! PE, who
stantly for tha last two years,
(with Sisters Of Mercy, Anthrax,
and a third American-only tour
with Geto Boys, ATCQ, Tim Dog,
Son of Bazerk, etc., and now
they're doin' it with U2) have
only put six new tracks on this
release, but to make it a full hour
long they got some ofthe best in
tha rapp bidnezz to remixx sixx
of their old hitts.
The album, called Greatest
Misses (Def Jam), doesn't have
the concept feel that their previous releases have had, allhough
the titles are all plays on the
names of old songs like "Hit Da
Road Jack," "Hazy Shade of
Criminal" and "Air Hoodlum."
They use a lot of spoken word
comments off of radio interviews
and stuff, and Chuck D's writing
style is gettin' so far funky lhal
il's almost straight up abstracl.
It takes a coupla' listens to un-
nerstand what he's kickin', but
s goin
ni!
ground. The beat
1 noizy self will
n things goin' on
Slammin'!
In local news, Finesse
and Showbiz, who competed
in DJ Soundwar Chapter II,
have just released a CD single
for Johnny Jet records of
Vancouver. The track is
called "Keep On Movin"'
and there are five different
mixes of it. This track is too
poppy for my tastes, with
the female singer doin' tha
intro for the rap and the real
commercial beats, butl suppose
it's good that somthing's happening locally. This track
sounds like it was made for
Z95.3, and I'm sure they'll
play it, but they get no props
from me for this effort. It
sounds like Johnny Jet has
being something thay don't
wanttobe.Getbacktodoin'
what you want to do, somethin'
smooth.
Comptons Most
Wanted  are   back   in  jack
Maybe I'm bein' too crili-
kickassonyourtypical rap group,
Ihing amazing from them. Judge
for yourself, check out "The
Madd Skillz Bass Pipe
Gelt Off Remixx"
of "Megablast"
and  the  "DJ
Chuck
Chillout
Mega
To Driveby (Orpheus).
These brothas, MC Eiht, DJ
Mike T, DJ Slip, Unknown
and Master Ric Roc, are re
sponsible for a whole new
style of hiphop. Tha hardcore
bined with MarvinGaye-style
scratched out of two repealed
key phrases from other hip
hop records makes this
hardcore shit fresh! CMW
'. And if you don'
lal the title is jus
' then I know you'l
Galiano with their second
release on Acid Jazz records,
A Joyful Noise Unto The Cre-
acid jazz thang that's been
gaining popularity in  Brit
n a live band playing very
: a hip hop break. Add
ie female soul singing and
w British soft-core rap-
l and you've got Galiano.
'oyful Noise Unlo The
ator might have a few
d grooves here and there,
si Wanted and it doesn't
id a chance. Britain has
n doing their own thang
I//
ntotheUltra
magnti
their fresh
Vow,   1   ih
no sel
ik   I'v VIDEOPHILTER
TANIA BOLSKAYA
box like a small furry animal that
only wants to escape your kindly
leg-hold trap.
My highly sought-after suggestion for private movie viewing
this month is an original. That
being, a movie that was good
enough to inspire some Hollywood director to use the usually
over-weight appendage at the end
of his arm in a misguided attempt
to better, or Hollywoodify, or English Languasize an already great
work.
c of u:
"'twas the night before
Christmas
And all through the pub
Not a sound could be heard
But a gentle "glub glub"
The drunks were propped up
On the woodwork with care
In hopes that the bartender
Soon would be there."
If social festivities don't
harden your nipples with the anticipation of fatty horsd'oeurves,
a cheap buzz, and wafer-thin conversation, perhaps your free time
this holiday season could be spent
in the company of those who admit their own transparency. No,
I'm not speaking of David Lynch
fans. ("Leave him alone, man. He's
a fucking genius!") What better
time of year to fester in your own
little cinematic cocoon with big
stars and screen legends than those
weeks when your beloved cousins of all ages invade the ancestral
abode and demand sacrifice in the
form of Nintendo rentals and BBQ
chips?
sugar-water torrent through
Candyland, I'd steer clear of anything advertised as a "Christmas
movie," especially if il's "for the
whole family." Sure, It's a Wonderful Life and A Christmas Carol
are great ways to pass Christmas
Eve (notwithstanding the fact that
they'll get you out of the annual
family church and photo album
showing extravaganza) but every
channel shows them at least once
during the yuletide television sea-
be a beautiful thing in terms of
alcohol intake, where catching a
flick is concerned, once annually
is mosl often enough.
Repeatingmy self is not somelhing I do gracefully or frequently,
but the New Releases section of
any video store can and will let
you down. If you do make that
wild, wacky, and wet trip to the
Church of Borrowed Movies for
your Christmas devotional, you
may want to first gorge yourself
on Torticre and malt whiskey. To
truly get inlo the corde-de-bois
adventure mode, approach each
have heard of Star Wars, The
Magnificent Seven, Dangerous
Liasons, and/or Valmont. Well,
smarty pants, have you heard of
The Hidden Fortress, The Seven
Samurai, or Les Liasones
Dangereux 19601
Les Liasones Dangereux
1960 (Dangerous Liasons 1960)
by French direclor/svengali Roger
Vadim was the first screen adaptation of the 18th century novel.
Vadim himself iniroducesthe film,
on his film exploration ofthe changing roles and perceptions of women
in society. (Bridget Bardot as sex
killen in And God Created Woman
and Jane Fonda as space sex kitten in Barbarella are two of this
s other female
Thi
is".)
i  of Danger
updau
I960
Europe,
young couple, the Valmonts, enjoy a very honesl and very open
(wink wink) marriage. Unwittingly, they fall into a game of sex
romp one-upmanship lhal leads
lo ihe disintegration of ihicr relationship and their lives. Danger-
ousLiasons 1960 centres on many
19X7
and 1988 adaptations (the forme
Dangerous Liasons, directed r
Stcphen Frcars and the lalle
Valmont ), directed by Mile
Forman), primarily the sexu
double standard to which womc
are subjected. Themoreuploda
setting of the Vadim verM.m brinj
ety and makes it recognizably
relevent to the more obtuse viewer.
There are no glitzy decolotage
costumes (sorry, breast freaks) or
astounding country manor settings,
only wonderfully subtle acting and
a hipper than thou Thelonius Monk
score. Dangerous Liasons 1960 is
worth watching if only for the
ever preasent, ever pleasant jazz
pianoofMr. Monk. Vadim's usual
- exploitative tendencies are quelled
in favour of a serious adaptation
of a sexually intellectual work.
If sexual game playing in
1960 France leaves you cold (or
you've finished masterbating to
Dangerous Liasons 1960 and you
want to move on), Akira
Kirosawa's The Seven Samuarai
is a great way to put an evening
out to pasture. It is three hours
and ten minutes of swordplay, trick -
ery, good guys, bad guys, cool
clothes, and even cooler hairdos
than you could find in any adventure classic of the Western hemisphere. Heck, George Lucas admittedly STOLE from this guy.
I'm not denying the validity of
TheMagnificentSeven, TheSeven
Samurai's American remake, as a
great western bul instead of retreading beaten paths, why nol
mosey your moccasins over to the
land where great westerns were
born: on the sets of Japanese master filmmaker Kirosawa. Be
warned, however. Ifyou haven't
caught Akirarrea yet, The Seven
Samurai (or High and Low, a dirty
detective flick, orRan, Kirosawa's
adaptation of King Lear, or The
Hidden Fortress, the inspiration
for Star Wars) will leave you highly
suseptible.
Are you really really really
scared of renting foreign movies
because they're nasty and difficult and they once offered you
candy and a ride home when your
mother wasn't around? La Femme
Nikita is probably one ofthe mosl
painless introductions inlo the land
of subtitles. If you've already
trekked through your local store's
list of Holly wood action-shoot'cm
films, you should overcome your
lingustic zenophobia lo check this
Not the most cerebral of action films, La Femme Nikita is
what the best of them should be—
entertaining. I'm recommending
La Femme Nikita now. Next year
Hollywood will be releasing its
own version starring Bridget
Fonda, and the original film will
be largely sought after and highly
unavailable. Besides, a prepared
audience is a skeptical one. The
commercial movie industry should
Speaking of earning one's
keep, the most earnest breadwinner of 1992 award should be distributed to Mr. Spike Lee. Nomatter
whal kind of backlash or acclaim
Malcolm X receives, it can nol be
denied that Lee has the good of an
film establishment and no one wa
home. Consequentially, It did it
duty in terms of generating dis
easy to disagree with his methods, his occasional irrationality,
or his frequent self-agrandizement,
but he very apparently and fervently desires to see his race bettered, a goal he strives for in each
of his cinematic endeavours. Next
month in this modest little column will sit the spittle of Spike
Lee himself, as he discusses
Malcolm X and related topics. To
prepare you, the loyal peruser, I
of fer the following brief summary
of his career.
In 1986, Lee made She's
Goltallavell. Unabletogelback-
ing, he borrowed his friends crcdii
cards and ran them up to $28,000.
Somepal.The rest ofthisSpikerella
story, however, reveals lhat.S'/ie'.v
Gotta Have II grossed S3 mil-
pendent, no-budgcl picture. An
Gotta Have II also displays a
sharp sensitivity for the modem
female perspective that Lee
diffused  considerably  in  later
Lessacccsiblc, and less popular, was Lee's 1988 movie, School
Daze. A full scale musical set at
an all-black college, Lee attempted
to speak out on the tension between light and dark skinned African-Americans. Ixe has always
maintained lhat he makes movies
for black people about topical black
wonder of video affords you ihe
option to fast forward the musical
numbers and just enjoy the vibrant, well acted story. Make sure
you don't miss E.U.'s Da Butt,
though!
With his next feature, Do
the Right Thing, Lee weni a-
knockin' at the door of the U.S.
lations. If you haven't seen Do
the Right Thing, you haven't
made the commitment to even
think  about racism  in  North
After the Do the R ight Thing
kufuffle, Lee, self-declaredly,
made a lighter toned film, 'Mo
Belter Blues. The story of a B lack
Eastwood's Charlie Parker bio,
Bird. Clint felt the attack on his
work was unwarrented, Spike
maintained his film was better.
Back to his ultra-serious,
something-has-lo-be-done-about-
the-state-of-affairs-and-we're-not-
going-to-get-anywhere-by-ignor-
ing-it mode, Lee released Jungle
Fever in 1991.The slory of an
interracial, exiramarilal romance.
Jungle Fever also discussed the
break up of the African -American
nuclear family and the drug prob-
Though it created less controversy lhan Do the Righl Thing in
terms of content, Lee did his
besl to slir things up al awards
Malcolm X has been approached by Lee as a turn ing poin l
in hiscarcer. He hasrighlly pointed
out lhat he has made so much
public fuss over pasl slalucttal
disappointments and prcsenl budget wrangling lhal everyone who
has ever been even slightly annoyed by him will be wailing (hoping, praying, and chanting) for
him to fuck up. I'd cross my fingers for him, but Spike Lee doesn't
need ihc help of my chubby pink
digcts.
Enough replication. In this
o kindly by an organiz
expand your mind and yourlaslcs
through cinematic endeavour of
the observatory variety. Be it a
foreign original, a Spike I^e film,
or Shanghai Surprise, go wild
and keep an open mind.
Vancouver's     Specializing in Computer Science,
Downtown     fllm and ^ *«forts
Bookstore        Gronville Book Company Is Holding
Its Annual Boxing Day Sale 20% off
Phone6872213       al Titles U Dec. 26-31
Open 7 days            850 Granville St.,
& 7 nights                Voncouver, BC V6Z 1K3
G R A
■A
N V 1 L L E
R(
■J
COM
P  A  N  Y
mfSM
DECEMBER .„&L«tilfer%OU!Jfar...
KNOWN RECORI
CAN'T FIND IT? Sam's has Western Canada s Largest Selection and Most Comprehensive Request Service.
ON SALE UNTIL JANUARY 10 AT 568 SEYMOUR ST. (DOWNTOWN). FOUR FLOORS OF FUN! Seasons Greetings, brals. Here is
my Christmas gift to you, the reader,
and the rocker. As of late, several
folks have approached me wondering how to actually go aboul
makingandputtingouta7" single.
It's actually a pretty simple and
short process when you get right
down to it. First, get your recorded
material onto a DAT tape. Pick
two or three songs that aren't too
long in length—the shorter they
are, the better the recording will
sound. Once the songs are onto a
DAT tape, you've got to get them
mastered. Probably the best place
in the world for mastering is K-
Disc Mastering (6550 Sunset
Blvd., Los Angeles, CA. USA
99028 orphone213-466-1323). It
usually costs about $50.00(U.S)
There they will ask you where
to have it sent to be pressed into
vinyl, tell 'em none other than
United Record Press (453 Chesnut
St., Nashville, Tennessee, USA
37203 or phone 615-259-9396).
This place is probably the cheapest and nicest place lo make 7"
records today. 1,000 records will
run you about $400.00(U.S.). You
can't make records in Canada, period. However, you can make the
covers at just about any print shop,
and the little bags can be purchased by the thousand for dirt
cheap at any packaging place.
Merry Christmas, go to it!
of those who have beaten you to it:
Locally, we have one release this
month, the long-awaited debut platter from The Rattled Roosters. Rockabilly recorded onto 24
tracks? I always thought that
rockabilly was supposed to be recorded on no more than 4 tracks:
voice, guitar, bass and drums! What
exactly were you trying to acheive
here, guys? I've seen this band a
lotta times and I know they can
rock, but this record does not rock.
It's very unfortunate but this is an
over-produced slab of corporate
cock-sucking. What the hell are
all those goofball fx doing with
the vocals? What ever happened
to the guitars? What happened to
that gutsy rockabilly edge?
Rockabilly is a wild form of rock
and roll, and this is a very tame
record. And I was really wanting
to love this one.... (Rattled Roosters, 2547 Edgar Crescent, Vancouver, B.C., V6L 2G5)
Bum have released their
lhird(!) single and, as can now be
fully expected from Bum, IT
KICKS ASS!!! Holy shit, what a
rockin' planer! The A-side is an
incredible tune entitled "Debbie
Speak" that explodes inlo a Bad
Religionish beat and ends on a
bridge so catchy you'll puke with
excitement. The B-side is yet another amazing song, "Bullet," originally done by the Misfits but re-
revved with Victorian shit-action
lo make il blaze hotter lhan ever
before. Get this Bum record! (Lance
Rock Records, 1223 College Drive,
Nanaimo, B.C., V9R 5Z5)
The Kill Rock Stars label
became real famous real quick
after releasing the compilation of
the same name featuring such ironic
combos as Nirvana and the Melvins,
plus local groups like Kreviss and
Mecca Normal. The Olympia based
label continues to roll, this time
spittin' out a single from Un-
WOU nd. Not too much to say about
this one; it's that avant garde, slow
sludge-beat stuff...you know. The
first song, "Caterpillar," gets up
lo a rockin' pace but it's a downhill
, confusing and depressing mess
from Ihen on. (Kill Rock Stars,
1023 South Adams, Suite 418,
Olympia, WA. USA 98501)
How about this for a fresh
idea...in promotion of their new
Seattle's ever Young Fresh
Fellows have released a promo
single which they're selling
for...one cent!!! And it is a very
greal single, indeed. The whole
aura ofthe record is very 1950's.
The Aside, "Stewed," is a viciously swingin' instrumental
while the B-side is a lovely bal
lad n
t of s
like "Earth Angel" or "Lonely
Boy." Lead singer Scoll once
told me the over lasagna in
Winnipeg: "All the rock and roll
songs have alrerady been written." Funny, then, how Scotl
keeps coming up with such great
ones....(PopLlama, P.O. Box
95364,Seattle, WA.USA98145-
2364)
I've never been a huge fan
of the Cynics bul I've always
respected them for keeping the
torch lhat is rock and roll brightly
burning in their part of the world:
Pittsburgh, PA.. These guys have
been putting out garage rock
records for a long lime and have
evolved from the fuzzy-folk garage of their earlier albums lo
theirpresent HEAVY rock stale.
Just out is the single "Leam To
Lose" which serves as an introduction to their new album of
the same name. If this 7" is any
indication at all of what the new
record has in store il should be
one rocking disc. Fuzz, screeching vocals, cowbells et al. (Gel
Hip, P.O. Box 666, Canonsburg,
PA. USA 15317)
Thinking they'd be in the
same genre, I thought I'd review
ihe nexi 7" by The Sanity Assassins in procession with like-
minded garage rockers. Wrong.
The Sanity Assassins are some
sort of crazed psychedelic trip,
one which I will refrain from taking. The B-side of this three song
EP starts out in the right direction
but, overall, they lose me on the
stale mushroom dream of ihe A-
side. (Dionysus Records, P.O. Box
1975, Burbank, CA. USA 91507)
Okay, try this record on for
Bleeeeaaauuurrrrgghhh!
which features 41 bands and 64
songs!!! True, no joke, I listened
to it! And it's actually some of the
most hilarious shit I've heard in a
while. The 41 bands seem to be
from all over ihe place—Australia, Mcx ico. New Jersey— but most
seem centered in California. Some
of the song lilies are just hysterical loo: "Go Back To Seattle (and
Get a Haircut)" by Napalm Breath,
"Vomit Omlel" by Splatterreah,
and "Chirp Bird" by Mork Hotel.
Just a sampling of the flash-in-
ihc-pan genius displayed on this
mere 7" platler making a home for
so many horrid bands! I can'l believe ihis thing...whoops, gotla
mention "You Know I'm Gonna"
by Mouthfarl. (Slap A Ham, P.O.
Box 420843, San Francisco, CA.
USA 94142-0843)
Stepping back inlo reality,
and Norway, but slill laughing dig
with me if you will The Tempo
Toppers. Yes, that's correct,
straight from the heart of
Scandanavia this rock and roll is a
delicacy lo my diet. Cool, straight-
ahead rock and roll music. Lotsa
shifty harmonics and goofy songs
(  four altogether) played  with
Whal
lergy  ;
">u gel t,
: "Rook ui
' (Thai's 1
Gu
P.O.  Box 858,  Bergcrsborg, N-
1501 Moss, Norway)
Also a good bet for money
and musical value is Screeching Weasels live song 7" EP
entitled Snappy Answers For Stupid Questions. More of thai very
fasl, mile-o-minutc pop-punk, a
la the Descendants, lo keep us all
more than satisfied. "Jcannie'sGot
A Problem Wilh Her Uterus" is an
instant hit. (Selfless Records, 8827
Hanford, Dallas, Texas USA
75243)
The lasl disc of the month is
ihc lalest from North Carolina's
Superchunk. Bashing, crashing,
melodic alt-pop lhal is so ullra-
popularon the col lege airwaves of
today. "Mower" and "On The
Mouth" arc a couple of rocking
ing is beautiful. But 1 think I'll
slick to the Tempo Toppers if it's
you bastards!). (Merge Records,
P.O. Box 1235, Chapel Hill, NC.
USA 27514)
I la
whelm
,cl>   I
the cruel
elephant
the only alternative nightclub
here it is, the long version of all the poop for late november/early
december, quite nice really, got a lot of cool shows and weird events
thot even i am not all that clear about what exactly is going to happen
and if i were, i'd still say the same thing, "do whatever you want, just
don't wreck anything" and maybe "don'tgetany goo in the monitors"
depending on just what the heck it is that they get up to anyway. So
let your imagination soar with the possibilities that lay on the shoulders
of the brave women and men that will take to the stage and show us
all their crazy versions of rock'n'roll, yikes.dig this thurs nov 19
touch and go/drag city recording artists ROYAL TRUX with another
damn superconductor side project SIZZLE TEENS and BLAISE
PASCAL fri nov 20 SINNERS SQUAD w/ from san francisco
LAGWAGON (last seen here with NOFX) w/ LESTERS WAGON w/
CHARLES ON CHARGES sat nov 21 sub pop recording artists
REVEREND HORTON HEATw/victoria's BUM w/THE SWEATERS
in a cd release show tues nov 24 THE DISCO NIGHTMARE
CONTINUES STILL 70'S $1 STILL CHEAP wed nov 25 local rock
monsters CAUSTIC THOUGHT w/ DOG EAT DOG w/ OMNIBOL
w/ RED SUGAR thurs 26 political folk-rock from baltimore, on
cargo records DISAPPEAR FEAR last seen here with the indigo girls
w/ guests fri nov 27 san fran's BRAIN JAM w/ ELVIS LOVE
CHILD w/ calgary's ZEN w/ THE STARBOYS sat 28 WHAT PART
OF "NO FUN' DON'T YOU UNDERSTAND??? w/ the "cuddle core"
of mint recording artists CUB DECEMBER!!!! tues dec 1
DISCORAMA CONTINUOUS DISCO HITS FROM THE 70'S $1 +
CHEAP SPECIALS wed 2 edmonton's THE SMALLS play songs from
their new cd "TO EACH A ZONE" w/ edmonton's IMAGINEERS last
seen here at the "music west" conference w/ Seattle's CONFUSED?
thurs 3 this is one of those shows that any sane (or insane, for that
er) pers,
-lould n
:m/e
■govern
,  be wro
ote MR
WOOL w/ kill everybody nowl be
WRONG (the bass player from nomeansno, yah goombah) w/
TONGUES AND BONES from Ottawa w/ HEATMISER fri 5 "fir st"
studios presents in honour of its cd compilation release of bands that
have recorded there: THE PASTIES, DOSE PUMP and ZOLTY
CRACKER plus guests sat 5 way cool portland rock fesH featuring sub
pop's SPRINKLER with sub pop's POND and Portland's HAZEL
tues 8 DISCO 70'S ONLY ORIGINAL VINYL ORIGINAL STARS $1
COVER CHEAP SPECIALS wed 9 recording live for the legendary
SOUNDPROOF tv show featuring the cranial expansion of temple
north recording artists FACEPULLER w/ THE CHANGELING w/
THE TOUCH'N'GOS thurs 10 texas hotel recording artists from
texas VIC CHESNETT AND HIS LITTLE SHARPIE -yesl a full band
this timel w/ ZUMPANO featuring members of the hard rock miners,
superconductor and glee w/solo guitar guy TIM RACINE fri 11 who
knows who will play on these, the SHINDIG FINALS!!! watch as the
three semi-finalists battle for prizes, glory and fame! sat 12
amphetamine reptile recording artists from minneapolis THE COWS
w/ cargo/headhunter recording artists from san diego ROCKET
FROM THE CRYPT featuring members of Drive Like Jehu w/ calgary's
EL CAMINOS tues 15 THAT CRAZY DISCO STUFF TO BOOGIE ALL
NIGHTTOwed 16 it's like a world beat dance partyl NGOMA! w/
guests thurs   17  hi  power x-mas schmooze-a-thonl  with special
happ'nin doo! fri 18 "CINEWORKS" independent filmmakers society
are having a showing off event with musical guests THE
HOLLOWHEADS and MOTOR CYCLE plus guests and, waitfor it...
filmslll come early for the flicks. That's it till the next issue of discorder
fer stuff, but don't forget advance tickets will be available at all your
favourite record stores, for ROCKET FROM THE CRYPT w/ THE
COWS and SPRINKLER w/ POND and also for the NEW YEAR'S
EVE SHOW that is promising to out do all other new year's shows look
for the super cheap tix at said shops, also we're having a punk rock
food bank benefit on the 23 rd of december, so save those canso'food
up and bring them down, dig life babes, the cruel elephant loves you.
23 W. CORDOVA
Open  Tues.-Sat.,  9pm-2am
Info   Line   -   688-5351
And remember: the cruel elephant lovet you. All of you.
DECEMBER DEADLINES!
FORTHE
JANUARY
ISSUE:
COPY:
DECEMBER 4
AD BOOKING:
DECEMBER 9
AD ARTWORK,
GIG LISTINGS,
ETC*
DECEMBERU
SO DON'T BE
A WEENIE,
GET YOUR
SHIT IN ON
P.S. HAPPY HOLIDAYS FROM
THE DISCORDER STAFF
Give the gift of rock'n'roll this Christmas
<^fe     Out now on Popllama!!!
second incredible album,
'Atlanta Whiskey Flats
'one of trie best things Popllama's put out "The Sonics and Billy Childish
the Young Fresh Fellows' Fab crashing a high-school dance
Sounds LP" -The Rocket the sound, making this one
"This one's a hit!" -Coercion outstanding record" -Vox
AVAILABLE AT ALL INDEPENDENT RECORD    *?
STORES OR FROM POPLLAMA PRODUCTS   ~
BOX 95364 SEATTLE WA 98145 USA $8 PPD.    *fc
I 1
HELP US HELP THE FOOD BANK!
Sb     (SB
During    the
month of December, CiTR
will   be  giving   away   CDs,
cassettes, posters, concert and
movie tickets to lucky listeners all month...
In return we'll be requesting that winners
bring a cash or non-perishable food donationjrg;
for the Food Bank when they claim their'
- prize. So listen to CiTR, win a prize,
__ and help out Vancouver's Food _
Bank   this   Christmas.
CiTR
101.9 fM
Just in time for Christmas:
Discorder Gift Packs!
s|od the best^xample of yourgood taste: Ayear's subscription toThat
Magazine from CiTR, A classy 2-sided multicolour Discorder T-shirt
(featuring comic star Velvets Record) and a Luna 2 cassette courtesy
of Warner Music. Gift Packs are $25 PPD in Canada, $25 OS In the
*<£*, and $40 overseas.
e make cheques or money orders payable to Discorder Magazine.
•6138 SUB Blvd., Vancouver, B.C. V6T 1Z1
NAME	
ADDRESS.
PHONE *
ANSWER Sparkmarker
Nappy Dugout
Sunday, October 25
"Free your mind and your ass will
follow" is spray-painted on one of
the walls ofthe Nappy Dugout. It's
true, you gotta go in open-minded
and absorb your surroundings. And
what surroundings! Holy Ayatollah
Crapameini! The Dugout is by far
the coolest performance venue in
Vancouver. It's everything I ever
thought was cool for a place to jam:
the barbed-wire suspended dragon,
skateboard ramps, hip graffiti, ultra-
fuckin' rad, dude! To use extremely
cliched language: IT IS THE ULTIMATE PLACE TO BE.
Theplacewasn'tasI'dthought
it would be, it was kinda crowded.
There were a lotta teenagers. I think
a lot of teenagers just hang out there
and care less aboutthemusic. Speaking of music, Sparkmarker were
great. One word: power. But they
weren't a wall of sound (as 1 was
expecting), one could actually hear
the l
s.Thisisi
old Suicidal Tendencies came to
mind, comparable by some lo All or
Pavement. They definitely do have
the Southern California sound and,
oh, Fugazi isn't that similar to 'em.
The crowd was pretty sedate.
Too bad 'cuz Sparkmarker deserve
the moshing. In fact the only people
dancing were a couple of 5-yearolds
hopping around their surf-punk
mommy. The only gripe I have with
the band is to mix the drums a little
lower. I think the lead guitarist's
voice is better 'n the lead singer's.
But, all in all, a cool performance
(particularly those th rash-rap songs).
I liked it and I'll go to the Dugout
again simply 'cuzof the way it looks.
(Hell why not?)
Trip
The Breeders
Unrest
Rage AG
Rockcandy
Seattle, WA.
Monday, Noveber 2
Hey, we were heading out on the
highway, looking foradventure, and
whatever Deal sister came our way.
If you did not know, Kim (Pixies'
bassist) and Kelly Deal are the identical twin sisters who form the core
ofthe musical project known as the
Breeders. Up until this year, the
Breeders' rosteralsouicludedTanya
Donnelly (ex -Throwing Muses who
has since left to pursue her own
project, Belly). Oh, by the way, when
crossing the border DO NOT say
you are going to a rock concert,
you '11 only be asking for the custom
officials to search your orifices. Instead, tell them you are going to
Seattle to see your favourite country and western act perform, ie. the
Saddlesores at the Longhom.
Rage AG pounced onto the
Rockcandy slage and belted out the
now coventional mix of rap/
hardcore/polilical dope shit. You
could tell they were IN TH E HOUSE
because their attire was by X-Large
(the Beastie Boys' clothing line)
and their pants were 15-20 inches
too big for them. Energetic, political lyrics with load, sometimes
funky music. Rage AG were entertaining, with the highlight coming
when the guitarist simulated D.J.
: with his guitar, needo!
rest, from  Washington
DC, i
ami K
cessful in their mission that they
only needed a half-hour to insure
everyone was well refreshed for the
Breeders and had no recollection of
The Breeders came onto the
stage and took their instruments.
Actually, they look different instruments. The latest shake-up in the
band has meant a change in who
plays whal within the band. This
was bad, very bad. It made all of the
themself, except for the drummer.
In return, many in the audience echoed the Breeders' nervousness.
After the band "labored"
through their first song, flaws and
all, a pattern emerged for the rest of
the night. Kelly Deal, lead guitarist
and smoker, looked to Kim Deal,
lead vocalist and rhythm guitarist,
for musical help (meaning what she
was suppose to be playing) while
the Breeders' bassist looked alternately to the drummer and then to
Kelly Deal in an effort to find out
what she too should be playing.The
concert was nonetheless enjoyable
to watch. At one point, the rest of the
band and the audience had to beg
Kelly Deal lo attempt one of the
Breeders' classic tunes, she had ap
parently practiced it so little she fell
she could perform it Before playing , Kelly crossed herself and looked
upwards for musical inspiration/in-
Undoubtedly as the "new
Breeders" get used to their instru-
they will be able to match the
excellence of their EP release. For
now, it is enjoyable to watch their
attempts, as long as you have their
t home to find out how the
should have sounded.
Crispy
Public Enemy
The Sugarcubes
Tuesday, November 3
B.C. Place Stadium
First off, I had a freebee for this
show, there is no way I'd ever pay
$40 for any concert. Opposite the
stage, lost somewhere in the red
zone amongst thousands of drooling
Bono fans, my view of a fucking
overblown stage spanning across the
stadium, and jutting out into the
crowd, was pitiable. Besides the 2
incredibly massive speakers and five
video screens were 5 cars mounted
on cranes for extra lighting. U2 is
supposed to be a politically and
evironmentally a ware group, so why
the extravagence?
The Sugarcubes, from Iceland,
opened up the event and played for
a whopping half hour. They reminded me of the B52s, but I prefer
Siggi's [Baldursson, drummer] wailing rhythmical voice. But all the
while they played, the people around
me booed the "boring" band. This
pissed me off. They were good, all
things considered, but they really
didn't fit the granola type audience.
After a short break, Public Enemy charged on stage. DISAPPOINTMENT...this rap group sucked
bratwurst. Between sucking and
chasing around a person dressed
as a KKK member, they bitched
about the "fucking Canadian border" forna allowing Flavour Flav
into the country [Take heed all
wifebeaters.Ed.].TheSlW'swere
even more annoying. I would have
had a better time at a Zamfir con-
U2 finally came on stage to
a crowd reminiscent of that at a
Beatles show, but they acted like
Bono was God. The TV's simultaneously exploded into a technical
frenzy of images and blurbs. U2
played material from the Joshua
Tree, Rattle and Hum, as well as
October, and only took three tries
to get the basic beat of "Pride"
going. I left after the Bob Marley
and Elvis covers.
Overall, this show was
blcodyoverblown,overhypcd,and
overly boring. Basically...ilsucked.
Ifyou had to see this show, you might
as well have sat outside for free, because the sound was almost as good
there as it was inside.
Svea Sjoberg
Testament
D.R.I.
New York Theatre
Wednesday, November 4
I've never experienced a poor show
at the N.Y. Theatre, fortunately,
D.R.I, allowed this streak to continue. D.R.I, got to play bolh old and
new tunes in abundance as a result of
Testament's problems crossing the
border. Although they haven't been
heralded as a great Uve band, everything seemed to work for them that
night. They were fully in sync, energetic and had this element of honesty that was truly refreshing; there
were no attempts to be entertaining through false
pretenses. They simply
walked on stage, plugged
in, and proceeded to
tic as possible on
the board, yet keeping the quality high.
Testamentplaycdasetthat
started with an obvious altcmpl at
showing off their new lead guitarist by
playing tunes that once highlighted
ex-lead guitarist Alex Skolnick. Unfortunately, from my balcony seat,
these solos were inaudible. As I
watched him solo, I noticed that
wherein Skolnick would pick every
note on a scale, this guy wouldn't... or
couldn't- Their replacement in the
drummer position, however, pulled
off the set with more success considering he only had three days to leam the
songs.
Testament are a very different
band. Now, there's no great technique
to watch and no cooley snare in your
face. They may consider harnessing
the new talent they have rather than
fighting the change'cuz the conflict is
really obvious.
Braden Zrno
out their handful of seven inchers,
including one for, Final Notice
Records, for some quality Canadian
talent
Windwalker hit the stage next
and kicked out some roots rock to a
virtually non-existant crowd. "If
only there was a halfpipe
here," quipped bassist
Anthony, "maybe
ihey    would
Well,    .
thony, maybe try
the Nappy Dugout and
you'll have better luck nt
Finally, the towering trio of
Floridians known as Rein Sanction
ambled up and served iheir
homebrewed guitar muck for the
appreciative few. However, jusl like
the weather in Florida, Rein Sanction's tunes become more repetitive
and stifling as the night wears on.
After hearing "Deep Ellis," "Creel,"
"Deeper Road" and the fastest version of HendnxV'Aint No Tellin',",
it was time to put on our jackets and
face the miserable weather outside.
When
" I*'1"'
Bryce Dunn
Jesus Lizard
Jon Spencer Blues
Explosion
Cruel Elephant
Saturday, November
6
After having a beer in the
classy atmosphere of the
Bourbon St., my friend and
I sprinted ihrough ihe rain to
the sold out show lo find oul
that I was only on the guesl
for one and nol two people.
Feeling rather sheepish,  1
David Yow of Jesus Lizard by I
Rein Sanction
Windwalker
Phleg Camp
Cruel Elephant
Thursday, November 5
Not a huge crowd on hand this nighl
bul there were enough people who
had seenorheard of Toronto's Phleg
Camp to make it seem thai way.
Reminiscent of another power trio
of late, Crackerbash, Phleg Camp
scored high on the diversity list,
mixing hypnotic guilar rhythms wilh
straight forward drumbeats. Check
downpour and wenl in by
myself. Ihe Jon Spencer
Blues Explosion was a few
songs into ils sel and I instantly decided lhal I liked
ihem. Jon use lo be in Pussy
ai Korinth Galore and, afler listening
son, I could definitely hear the connection. Their bluesy/rockabilly
sound reminded mc somcwhal of
the Cramps wilh a harder edge and a
becauselha's really the only ihing in
lhat vein lhal I've listened lo. Great
stuff.
'Ihc Jesus Lizard came on to a
totally hyped capacity crowd. David
Yow (singer) called us a bunch of
white Canadian cowboys, or something like lhat, then finally shut up
and the sel commenced. Ihc floor
was prelty chaotic as slamming be
gan to the droning,throbbing sound.
(By the way, a big bravo goes out to
the chick who punched the guy in
the face for being a total idiot in the
slam pit. Way to go!) Accordingly,
Yow did not disappoint those who
were expecting his usual sweating,
staggering, slobbering, and generally drunken and fucked-up stale. I
was fairly impressed to see that he
could continue to sing even as he
was writhing on the floor trying to
avoid being stomped upon.
All things considered, I can't
ly upset by being too
far back from the stage, and too
short to sec, when Yow had
anls half-way down
A'ilh his long-johns
hanging off his
profusely swcal-
iairy,body. Nor, for
ihowed the audience a
scar on his ass; the result
of an overly zealous doctor
during his birth by Caesarean
Overall, I did enjoy their
set, as I have the other times I've
seen them, despite the grossness of
Yow and the fact lhal il seemed ihey
played pretty much the same songs
as when I saw ihem in June.
Tammy Vaughan
Yothu Yindi
Town Pump
Tuesday, November 10
For starters, I totally fucked up on
the showtime. After silting around
forhourson many olher occasions
I showed up at the Pump al 10:30,
missing  the openers  Dobb and
couple of songs by Yothu Yindi.
Shil! Plus I had lo slink by ihc
Kvl ,,
mplcl.
hirty  s
Yothu Yindi I
rounded the Pump wilh a unique
blend of aboriginal music blended
with folk, pop, and full-out rock.
The sold out crowd was obviously
familiar wilh this group, singing
ers, while Yothu Yindi alternated
...Ul,   ■:
A-nh n
amongsl the unusually well-behaved
crowd, however. Ihis couple thai
parked in fronl of mc yapped constantly while sipping iheir little peach
coolers and dazzlingcach olher wilh
lales of their trips lo Australia. I fell
like telling them loput the Kaibosh
on the iravcloguc, bul I scaled for
moving lo another perch.
This band sets itscl I apart from
other world music bands wilh iheir
variety of influences. For those unaccustomed to bands of new styles,
it lakes a while to gel used lo ihc
differences thai set lhat culture's
music apart, and boredom may result. Yolhu Yindi shot from a traditional Aborigine chant to a folk-
based political song, to a soul-
charged raver, to a heavy rock song
in as many songs! Il was totally
passionate, lively and long (almost
Iwo hours!). Hope ihey come back
DECEMBER MOFO'S CHRISTMASSY-TYPE PIX 0' THE MONTH
Yep, that's right, it's me, the
Rush Limbaugh of rare V rotten
records, the Ozymandius of obscure and obscene ovals, the Joe
BobBriggso' wild vinyl, the Prime
Punditof PrePosterous Plastic,the
...well, you gel the idea! This month,
the month in which one simple
damn holiday occurs. You know,
Christmas, that one celebration that
everybody celebrates regardless
of their belief in the evenl itself;
the single day that commerce extended inlo four months of beating you over the bead with ads for
geegaws, trinkets, doodads, etc..
It's the time when your parents,
who spent most of the year trying
to gel you not lo talk with strangers, expect you to sit on the lap of
a man in a red suit and fake beard
and tell him your desires! And
don't get me started on the elf
thing!!!!!!!!
Anyway, enough of the boil.
My point is, you goita give gifts
anyway, right? So, why not make
said gifts unique? I mean real
unique! Like a weird and wonderful record from the very same
sources a dude like me shops! The
benefits are numerous: first of all,
you don't spend much; second if
you can find that special truly
twisted record that will elicit a
hearty yuletide chuckle from the
recipient (or al least an incredulous "what the fuck?!") you win.
You can also pretend you scoured
the town for "that special gift" just
for them, and maybe they won't
write you off as a cheap and strange
person. Here are a few ideas lo
start you on your journey:
D & G Collectors Records, 3500
E. Hastings — Lots of cool stuff
for Ihe collectors here, but the kicker
is the big trunk of 25 cent 45's and
the dollar record pile to the right
of the till that greets you as you
damndest things here, and it's always fun to see the look on their
faces when 1 load up with Wayne
Newton, Portuguese and typing
course records, and Abba, Abba,
and more Abba!!
Terminal Street Flea Market —
You see it when you surf the
Skytrain between Main St. &
Broadway Stations. It's a short
walk from Main; open Sat., Sun.
and holidays. Literally thousands
of records everywhere for below a
dollar, with the odd exceptions.
This is also where old technology
goes to die. More eight tracks,
beta videos, and Atari games than
Liquidators Flea Market, 1595
Kingsway—Smaller, cleanerand
fewer hucksters than the above
place, but watch out for the
Scientology table. Be sure you
get a Dianetics bumper sticker
before you tell them to fuck off.
Hastings Secondhand Goods, 45
W. Hastings — They don't keep
them well, butgood place for cheezy
'70's stuff.
Triple M Buy & Sell, 1143
Granville — Nestled amongst the
porno shops and video arcades is a
fine place for 45's and records.
The plus is ihey try lo put them in
order.
but I've
only gol so r
nuch space
and I'v
52-S.l
!_kt_!dfo!
hese or
es, folks!
It's OK To Say No (Kid Stuff)
Like I mentioned before, you're a
parent who's just blown a whole
year of imprinting your tot on avoiding strangers by plopping he/she/
it on Santa's knee. Put 'em back
on the righl path with this playground pervs, crack dealers looking for pre-teen mules, plus a section on dealing with Catholic brothers, but I can only guess!
Lullaby From The Womb — Dr.
Hajime Murooka (EMI)
While I'm on the toddler tip,
here's a lovely selection from
1974. Featuring lovely noises like
the sound of the main artery of
the mother's womb, plus mood
on  this  album  is the jamdown
between   the  sludio  band  and
7 inch 4-song EP — Keith (A
Kcnro Productions Concept)
1 dunno, but this EP seems to have
a theme: "There Is A Boy Named
Keith," "A Spelling Song For
Keith," "Keith's Party," and, of
course, "Keith, Keith"!! And I
thought Sling was self-absorbed!
Seriously, this record was put out
by Captain Kangaroo and seems
to be part of a name-specific series. This gift, needless to say,
ain't much use if you have no
friends named Keith.
Singing
Pebbles and Bam-B
Songs of Christmi
Barbera Records)
This one's going out to buddy and
resident Phlinstone Phreak, Paul
t. Brooks! The LP is as hilarious
as you'd expect, and the baffling
thing is why they felt they had to
include such a detailed description of the recording gear! Who'd
give a shit?! The two brats do
more dialogue on this LP than on
the whole fuckin' series!
Night Moves (The Professional
Approach loDiscoDance Instruction) — Denny Terrio (K-Tel)
Disco lessons from the man who
taught Travolta. Cruel disco freaks
should watch out forthis one; it's
the key to making even a bigger
loser out of yourself! Two records
in a lovely box set with a brutal
96-page booklet lo die for! Terrio
wins the prize for bad mugging to
the camera in every photo! I shit
you not, folks! Look for the K-
Tel seal of quality!
Thee Psychosonic Pick O' The
Month!!!!!!!!
Sour Cream & Other Delights —
The Frivolous Five
(Dynagroove)
Dig this! A cover of the entire
WhippedCream LPby Herb Alpert,
done by five grannies whodorave-
ups of each and every song! The
cover alone is worth the S2.00 I
paid! *,'m not kidding, everybody,
this really exists!!! A solid contender for Pick o' the Year, to be
Quite the batch this time,
eh? Listen, I am preparing
thee first sampler of the stuff
I've been reviewing for the
last year. Since you can't get
a lot of this stuff anymore,
I'm putting the
choicest cuts on
cassette. Just send
me a paltry $5 to
cover costs and
mailing and I'll
ship it out to you.
Drop a line c/o
Mofo to the address on the masthead and I'll get it
to you for Xmas.
Have a good holiday, and remember, drink, drive,
but not at the same
time!
BIKINI KILL
(Kill Rock Stars)
Hailed as the champions of the riot
grrl movement, the media hype
surrounding Bikini Kill, long before
this record came out, has been
phenomenal. Presumably,as amove
tocreate somemystique surrounding
the band, they began refusing all
interviews and media appearances,
spuming the likes of Spin magazine
and others. Of course this worked,
and their fame has spread far and
wide. They (and the riot grrls) have
been written about in the L.A. Times,
The New Yorker, the/Vew York Times
26 E_Rs2Srraa
and Melody Maker[nov/ Discorder.
Ed] among others.
When I heard ihrough the
alternative rock grapevine that they
cancelled their October 23 show in
Bellingham (which I went down to
see) for less lhan legitimate
reasons—they were just being
assholes, pulling a dumb rock star
trip—I felt jilted. I have to admit, I
set my mind against liking this
record, but lo and behold I found
that I set it aspin on my turntable
again and again. Whileitmay not be
a legendary rock'n'roll classic
(which I think people sort of expect,
due to all the hype) this record is
fucking raw punk rock: catchy and
danceable.
"Suck my left whhhhnnnn...."
I think the best thing aboul Bikini
KU1 is really Cathleen Hanna's
vocals. And although her praises
have already been sung by more
prestigious publications everywhere,
I have to say it, boy can this grrl wail.
She offers a very refreshing twist to
youraverage female rock vocal. She
has somelhing to say, and she says it
coolschmool business.
Albeit, there are some weak
points on the record, particularly the
"give peace a chance" segment at
the end of "Liar." Ooh, it makes me
cringe, although Cathleen doesmake
up for it right after by singing "huh,
huh," in direct mocking towards her
own words, which is really great.
"Thurston Hearts The Who" is also
a complete wnte off as a song.
The above criticisms not
withstanding, the record is terrific. I
enjoyed listening to it, it's minimal,
it rocks, it's NOW. One also has to
appreciate their efforts to remain
true to the underground by releasing
their record on a small label (when
I'm sure they've been offered deals
wilh several major-ish independent
record companies) and for being
icons to the Riot grrls who (or say
they do) "reject ihe marketplace,"
and as feminists, "reject patriarchy."
Only time will tell wheather Bikini
Kill will continue to revolutionize,
or in the face of all the glory they've
been receiving, sell out lo the
corporate rock ogre.
Sara Lapsley
TOM WAITS
Bone Machine
(Island/A&M)
"I like songs that are adventures,
are riddles. I like songs that are a
ship that will take you on a journey
and maybe won't bnng you ail the
way back." — Tom Wails
Tom Wails has made an
album to his own tastes in Bone
Machine. Rhythms deadlier than
belladonna and melodies beautifully
scrambled meet somewhere six feet
under then rise in ethereal splendor.
You have to hear it to become a
Tanya Bolskaya
ROCKET    FROM    THE
CRYPT
Circa: Now
(Headhunter/Cargo)
NATION OF ULYSSES
Plays Pretty For Baby
(Dischord)
Punk rock has been dead a long
time — actually, it only existed in
the minds of Malcolm Mclaren and
EMI — but the forces lhat be will
see lo il lhat both of these albums
are labelled with that overused and
misconstrued moniker. That is a
shame considering Circa: Now and
Plays Pretty For Baby are two of
the best ROC K albums of the year.
Simply stated they are inspiring,
unoriginal, riff-heavy releases tied
by a common thread of influential
sounds from the past with some
intriguing use of homs. In both cases
the breathy use of a saxophone or
trumpet is discreet but flavours the
text  of  the   albums   with   an
exclamation mark.
The Nation of Ulysses'
exclamation mark, however, comes
in the form of their outspoken, bag-
of-wind, musical coup d'etat. like
a failing-student version of
Consolidated, NOU cough out
(Vladimir)Lenin/Mackaye(Fugazi)
rhetoric at atempo only matched by
John Zorn and hi s cronies. But don't
be fooled by anyone's descnpiion
of Nation asajazz-punk band; NOU
are above rejuvenating a long dead
term and era, and are fasl to preach
of a disease that plagues the masses
under an American republican
government.
Since the release of their
first album.yj Point Program To
Destroy America, a self-appointed
"Soundtrack to Revolution," the
Nation of Ulysses have tried to
undermine the impressionable
youth of America with their
commandments for smashing the
system. While proving themselves
hypocritical in their anti-fascist
beliefs, Nation of Ulysses have
come across as a pathetically ill -
informed group of Sassy magazine
anarchists. However.if you can take
their politically metaphoric rants
with a grain of salt ("Jean Dixon
[Mecca Normal] is scratching out
my eyes," shouts vocalist Ian F.
Svenenius sore-throatedly in "S.S.
Exploder") an album's worth of
solid musici an shipandcreativerock
hybrids await ihe listener.
Rocket From ihe Crypt's
Circa: Now, on the other hand, does
not require the shaving away of
several layers of skin to get to the
riperiffage. This baby, plucked from
the vine in full blossom, feeds the
tired and rhetorical question of who
is going to be the next big stink to be
signed The Nirvana/Helmel/Soruc
Youih Package. Let's face il, the
music of today is no different from
thai of the past, just ask Led
(Soundgarden) Zeppelin, Ted
(Nirvana) Nugent or Big (Ministry)
Black. Not ones to stray too far
from the retro pack are RFTC.
Hailing from the Nazareth
School of Hard Knocks, Rocket
fuel inviting chugga-chugga riffs,
witnessed in "Hair Ball Alley,"
"Don't Darlene," "Short Lip Fuser"
and "Sturdy Wrist," that set the
fingers to twitchin', the toes to
tappin' and the estrogen/
testosterone levels to peakin'. Far
removed from a formula sound, and
not tied down by one eilher, RFTC
fly around the musical galaxy with
a rockabilly-tinged pick-me-up
("Killy KiU") and a blue collar
rocklore jab which ponders: "I
betcha paid a lotta money for that
haircut" ("Ditch Digger"). But the best way to sum
up this album is through the slow
and tear-jerking chord change of
Circa: Now's opener, "Short Lip
Fuser"; relive it with me and you'll
know what I mean: Imagine
doddling through the high school
halls after your 2:30 class on a
Friday afternoon. Ahead is a sunny
May weekend free of homework
and full of romantic possibilities.
You exit into the student parking
lot to see an overpaid tow truck
driver, with the crack of his ass
showing, chaining the Japanese
motorbike your parents bought you
to his truck. Before you can cross
the lot to find oul that you were
parked in a loading zone, the truck
and its five occupants bounce over
Ihe speed bumps, scratch the paint
on your Hurricane, and throw their
cigarette butts out the window. All
in a day's work for Rocket From
The Crypt Towing Co. Ltd..
Paul t. Brooks
MUDHONEY
Piece of Cake
(Reprise/Warner Bros.)
YOW! Yet another much-vaunted
"alternative" combo makes a slab
st the Glory Pot of major label
success! The anticipation is electric!
Will they achieve multi-million
dollar sales based on one catchy
single and get hooked on smack
li ke their Seattle pals. Or, will they
join Helmet, Babes in Toyland, and
soon, Hole, in the race to the delete
bin?
Mudhoney fans will love
this ihuddy, mooshy pileo' tunage.
Ihc Mudhoney sound lhal welled
up from their first EP, Superfuzz
Bigmuff, is there in spades, raw and
fleshy like a fresh floor bum. Added
is the rough garagey feel of Egg
Studios , where some ofthe finest
albums of last year were made (like
Olivelawn's Sophomore Jinx to
name but one). Lots of neat noises
come out of Mark Arm and Steve
Turner's guitars.aresult of vintage
70's pedals, no doubt, and there are
goofy short bits strewn between
ihe songs to tickle your funnybone
as well.
Although there are tons o f
memorable songs, like "Ritzville,"
"Suck You Dry," and "Living
Wreck," but there are none that
could be big singles. This is good
and bad, because you won't be
deluded with Mudhoney Fever like
the "Teen Spirit" overkill earlier
this year. However, the corporate
snots in thebigoffice will bepissed
if they don't sec the sales numbers,
and Mudhoney may be dropped
like arock, like so many other great
bands. Either way, buy it, it's a
killer LP!!!
Mofo
BRIAN ENO
Nerve Net
(Opal/Warner Bros.)
The Eno-man returns, and Nerve
Net breaks Brian Eno's undeserved
fall into relative obscurity. Sure,
many know him as a producer
(Talking Heads, U2), some have
heard that he was once a member of
Roxy Music; didn't he make a
bunch of muzaks for airports loo?!
Before the airport muzaks
(which aren't all that bad on CD, by
Warm Jets and Taking Tiger
Mountain By Storm. Nerve Net is
Eno's return to pre-ambient form.
Mr. Synthesizer Keyboard
has created an album that although
covers some familiar ground—the
My Life In The Bush of Ghosts-like
"Wire Shock"—also travels to the
forefront of today's electro avant-
garde jazz; for instance "JuJu Space
Jazz." "The RoU, The Choke" is
reminescent of "Babies On Fire"
yet brought fully up to date. "Ali
Click" is very danceable, etc. etc.
I could go on but let's put
it this way, there's not a dud track
on this disc; from the superb
production by Eno with Markus
Draws, to the excellent
musicianship of Eno's numerous
guests: Robert Fripp, Benmont
Tench, John Paul Jones, King
Hastings Kwesi Banana, to name a
few. Yes this band has real
musicians and indeed real
drummers, but don'l take my word
for it, check Nerve Net out for
yourself. This is eclecticism al its
besl. And, oh yeah, play this one
Norm Van Rassel
^honerj
KENDRA SMITH
The Guild of Temporal Adventurers
(Fiasco)
Available on CD and 10", in a very
snappy fold-in cover, this is the
latest from KendraSmith, formerly
of Opal and the Dream Syndicate.
Fans of Opal's woozy beauty or
This Mortal Coil will appreciate
the charms of this very late-night
record. A Can cover ("She Brings
the Rain"), languid tempos, harmonium drones, odd little
interludes, and some frankly dippy
guitar effects are the background
for Kendra's singing. Kendra sings,
as always, as though she's the last
one above the table at 4 a.m., wondering how much she'll get for all
the empties.
The songwriting is a lot
plainer than, say, Opal's, bul al
least it isn't filled with annoying
spot-lhe-quotegames like (ex-Opal
song writer DavidRoback's) Mazzy
Star. Ihe recording itself strikes
me as a little too clean, but that's a
personal quibble, and won't scare
off anyone who perked up at the
mention of'Ihis Mortal Coil.
Mark Szabo
LAUREL AITKEN
Rasta Man Power
(ROIR)
No, I^aurel Aitken hasn't grown
dreadlocks under his trademark
pork-pie hat; the album title is a
misnomer. RastaMonPower, aside
from being the title of a 1979 hit,
has very Uttle lo do with the 23
selections hand-picked by the Godfather of Ska himself. This is
intended to be a greatest hits package and spans the years 1960 -
1990. The album also serves as a
mini history lesson in the evolution
of Jamaican music and its parallel
development in the U.K..
Beginning with some early
R&B singles cut forthe Blue Beat
label, this well-paced collection
presents some of Aitken's excellent ska/bluebeat hits such as
"Daniel Saw theSlone" and "Sweet
Jamaica." As the ska era gave way
to rock-steady, the godfather became known as Boss Skinhead and
was a regular performer al London-area skinhead hangouts such
as Toft's. As ska went through a
revival in theU.K. in the late'70's,
the former Godfather reclaimed his
title as Mr. Bluebeat and has managed lo sustain his popularity by
having the occasional quirky hit,
such as "Rude Boy Dream" and
"Ringo the Gringo."
Laural Aitken, even after 3.5
decades, has lost none of his lire.
However, one glaring absence from
this collection is the inclusion of
any Iracks recorded in 1963 with
the Skatalites. I realize these Iracks
are available on ihe highly-recommended Long Hot Summer cassette/
album, also on ROIR, bul the inclusion of "Lion of Judah,"
"Bad-Minded Woman" or "Freedom Train" would have highly
worthwile release. Hopefully, we
won't have lo wait another 30 years
until Laurel Aitken brings out his
next greatest-tracks compilation.
Available on cassette only.
Mike Cherry
POP WILL EAT ITSELF
The Look Or The Lifestyle
(Bmg/Rca)
I can't make up my mind on this
one. On one hand we have a strong,
identifiable band sound thai does
nol let up for the duration. Vestan
Pance(?) has hit on a workable
formula. Once you've heard
P.W.E.I. you will alwaysrecognize
their sound. Herein lies the problem:
after a while it starts to gel on your
nerves a bit. Not that every track
sounds the same, "Urban Futuristic"
starts off with some interesting
sound effects, "I Was A Teenage
Grandad" strays a little at limes,
and "Harry Dean Stanton" shu ffles
to a steady groove, but forthe mosl
partit's thai familiarP.W.E! boom
boom boom.
Of course one musl keep
in mind that the gems from ihe
Black Country not far from
Birmingham arc most popular in
the dance clubs. Wilh a lillle ctsi.ii>
enhancement I'd probably flip for
this disc. Sometimes that's all thai
il lakes. Situ at ions being a.s the\ are
though, I'm inclined to give this
offering from Pop Will Eat Itself a
5 out of a possible 10.
P.S. Adrian Sherwood
fans might be interested in tracking
down his remix of "Bulletproof
Norm Van Rassel
OPEN T NIGHTS A 1_V_B_E_H:
Monday *o Saturday
9_p_nr_L 2a_m
Sunday
9pm 12am
Drink specials mondaywednesday
t___n_rtBtd«y & ennday
&ejW4M*l%jejtL   nzjej&li£Lnl8utflj&*fi
Luvafair is having a new y ear s/birthday party
you will never forget! details soon, tickets limited
1275 S_Er_r___IOTJR DECEMBER 92 LONG GROOVES 50
1 BRIAN ENO
2 JACK FEELS RNE
3 MUDHONEY
4 CONSOLIDATED
6 JESUS LIZARD
a C. SCHULTZ
9 DAISY CHAINSAW
10 THE NATION OF ULYSSES
1 SONIC YOUTH
2 DRIP TANK
3 HOUSE OF PAIN
4 MUSLIMGAUZE
5 SNUFF
6 SUPERSUCKERS
7 BAD LIVERS
8 THE OFFSPRING
IO PURE
20 SUGAR
21 BOMB
22 DOWN BY LAW
23 VARIOUS
24 DR. ALBAN
25 NO USE FOR A NAME
26 SHRIEKBACK
27 SLOPPY SECONDS
28 VARIOUS
20 DOGBOWL
30 THE MORTALS
31 NINE INCH NAILS
NERVE NET WARNER
JACK FEELS RNE EGG
PIECE OF CAKE REPRISE
PLAY MORE MUSIC CAPITOL= NETTWERK
OOMALAMA ATLANTIC
LIAR CARGO= TOUCH & GO
LUNAPARK ELEKTRA
4. FILM TON EXTREME
ELEVENTEEN A&M
PLAYS PRETTY FOR BABY DISCHORD
DIRTY MCA=DGC
SLAKE CARGO=HEADHUNTER
HOUSE OF PAIN TOMMY BOY
ZUL'M EXTREME
REACH CARGO=K
THE SMOKE OF HELL CARG0=SUB POP
DELUSIONS OF BANJER QUARTER STICK
IGNITION EPITAPH
PUREAFUNALIA REPRISE
COPPER BLUE RYKODISC
HATE FED LOVE REPRISE
BLUE EPITAPH
VANCOUVER AUDIO PROFILE   AURAL TRADITION
ONE LOVE BMG
DON'T MISS THE TRAIN NEW RED ARCHIVES
SACRED CITY WORLD DOMINATION
THE   FIRST   SEVEN   INCHES TAANG
JUST SAY YES TO YESTERDAY WARNER
FLAN CARGO=SHIMMY-DISC
RITUAL DIMENSION OF SOUND ESTRUS
BROKEN ATLANTIC
PECEMBER 92 SHQRTIE GROOVES 35,
32 ROYAL TRUX
33 VARIOUS
34 POLYPHEMUS
35 RYUICHI SAKAMOTO
36 VARIOUS
37 ALL GOOD CHILDREN
38 BELLY
30 WELDON & ARNOLD
40 BILLY CHILDISH
41 GUIDED BY VOICES
42 JERRY JERRY
43 JR. GONE WILD
44 JUICE MONKEYS
45 LUNACHICKS
46 THE MAGNOLIAS
47 MEMORY DAY
48 REIN SANCTION
49 TRIGGER HAPPY
50 WAX
ROYAL TRUX DRAG CITY
RAINCREATURE KWAZSONG
GREAT VILLAGE TRIP EP PLACEBO
HEARTBEAT VIRGIN
POP UNDERGROUND CONVENTION  CARGO=K
ALL GOOD CHI LDREN RAW EN ERGY
SLOW DUST EP 4AD
BOTTLENECK GUITAR TRENDSETTERS     YAZOO
THE ORIGINAL CHATHAM JACK CARGO=SUBPOP
PROPELLER ROCKATHON
ROAD GORE CARGO
PULL THE GOALIE STONY PLAIN
BULBOUS & FRAGRANT JUICE MONKEYS
LUNACHICKS SAFE HOUSE
HUNG UP ON... ALIAS
JENKINS FARM MEMORY DAY
MARIPOSA CARGO=SUB POP
DISTURBO EPIDEMIC
WHAT ELSE CAN WE DO CAROLINE
BUM & SCOn HENDERSON
!   NIRVANA B/W POISON IDEA
7 THE FUCKERS
8 LUNG
9 CREEP
10 THEE CRUSADERS
11 CIRCUS LUPUS
12 DHARMA BUMS/CRACKERBASH
13 DRUNKS WITH GUNS
14 KILL SYBIL
15 RISE
16 SANITY ASSASSINS
17 SHADOWY MEN
18 SUPERSUCKERS
19 THE WORST
20 DALENCHMOB
21 KIDSENSATION
22 PAW
23 RANCID HELL SPAWN
24 ROYAL TRUX
25 TWERDOCLEB
26 SICK AND WRONG
27 FRAMPTON BROTHERS
28 TANKHOG
29 GAS HUFFER
30 GRAVEL
31 SAW TOOTH
32 BILLY CHILDISH
33 THE PUTTERS
34 CRIMINAL NATION
35 DRONE 	
BLOBS - VOL. 3 WAY OUT
•RETURN OF THE RAT*/*UP FRONT* 7* T/K
"BELONGVRED HAIRED GIRL* 7" NIM
DOVETAIL 7" K
4 SONG 7" SUB POP
"TEETERING*/"THE IN CROWD" 7"T0UCH & GO
3 SONG 7" SUB POP
•UTANY-/-FUCK GENERATOR" 7"SERIAL KILLER
"NO PAIN"/"WORDS" 7" SUB POP
CRUSADER'S THEME SCRATCH
"POP MAN"/"PRESSURE POINT" 7"DISCH0RD
3 SONG 7" T/K
"SUPERSTAR" 7" BAG 0 HAMMERS
FAIRLANE 7" EMPTY
■WHERETOFlNDVSUNCITY DREAMS' 7" SUPERSOUND
"LIGATURE-/-VAMPIRES" 7" TPOS
D0G&SQUEEGIE7"                              ESTRUS
•HELL  CITY,  HELLVDEAD   HOMIEZ"   7"   SUB   POP
5 SONG 7" INDEPENDANT
■GUERILLAS IN THA MIST" 12" EASTWEST
"THE WEEKEND" 12" NASTYMIX
"LOLITA"/"ONE MORE BOTTLE" 7"    NASTY POPE
4 SONG EP 7" WRENCH
"RED TIGER"/"LAW MAN" 7" DRAG CITY
THE GNAT EP 7" SCRATCH
3 SONG EP 7" SUB POP
"DO THE CHAIR"/"FURNITURE* 7" BOGUS
TRAIN SONGS 7" MINT
HOTCAKES 7* SUB POP
"AS FOR TOMORROW" 7" ESTRUS
KINDA STANKY 7" EN GUARD
"BALLAD OF HOLLIS BROWN" 7" SUB POP
3 SONG EP 7" EMPTY
"EXCUSE ME MR. OFFICER" 7" NASTYMIX
IF YOU CAN'T FUCK IT...7"           INDEPENDANT
91
3 BLAISE PASCAL
4 SANDRA LOCKWOOD
5 32 TO BASE
6 VICIOUS BARBS
7 HUEVOS RANCHEROS
8 SINUS ENVY
9 DRAG THE RIVER
10 SIDEMEN
11 PLEASURE PRINCIPLE
12 PEANUT GALLERY
13 MOVIELAND
14 CHRIS HOUSTON
15 SEX WITH NIXON
16 AGING YOUTH GANG
17 SHE STOLE MY BEER
18 JACK FEELS FINE
19 CAUSTIC THOUGHT
20 SHE
21 KYP HARNESS
22 ORBIT IN BLOOM
23 NGOMA
24 CONTEMPT
25 GOAT BOY
26 SHE
27 BLAISE PASCAL
28 MORTIKYE RANCH
29 STOATERS
30 NENDIKS
31 PIGMENT VEHIVLE
32 TERROR T
33 MUTANT STARFISH
34 LUNG
35 SAINTS AND POETS
•LITTLEZEBRAS1
"BEHIND THE V
"TURNSTI
■REPTILE'
"TICKLE BOMBS'
■DRAG THE RIVER'
•RAN'
■TOXIC PSYCHOSIS-
"DRINK DEEP*
*l WANTED
■THE GRINCH L
■DANCE OF THE MOTH AND CANDLE'
"PLANET CLAIRE'
"SHE S
"MIRANDA'
"PEACE IN 1
"EVERYBODY'SGOT SOME CULTURE'
"GRANDFATHER CLOCK'
■TIRED'
■30 SECOND
"SUITCASES AND POSTCARDS'
"SHE STOLE MY HEART'
■EDGE OF THE WORLD'
"HAD TO GET AWAY"
■NO   MEANS
"MY DADDY WAS A MURDERIN'
"NEW ZEALAND"
 -BETTER LIFE"
DO YOU REMEMBER ROCtCN'ROLLRADIO?
DISCORDER CHARTS 5 YEARS AGO.
1 MARK STEWARTS THE MAFFIA
2 SMITHS
3 54-40
4 DUKES OF STRATOSPHEAR
5 CABARET VOLTAIRE
6 JAH W08BLE
7 MARRS
8 HANK WILLIAMS
9 GODLEY _ CREME
0 PUBLIC IMAGE LTD.
THIS IS STRANGER THAN LOVE
STANGEWAYS, HERE WE COME
SHOW ME
PSONIC PSUNSPOT
CODE
ISLAND PARADISE
PUMP UP THE VOLUME
LOVESICK BLUES I
SNACK ATTACK I
HAPPY?
DIALIN' FOR CELEBRITIES
This month's "Dialing for Celebrities" takes
an odd twist as old Excubus runs into a
gentleman who we'll eatt Mr. X. What's so
great aboutthis guy, well wheredo we start..?
There I was wandering through the lovely
Metrotown shopping complex when Mr. X
began speaking: "I am out to expose all of
you. I know too much, they're after me, I will
expose you!"
I looked at this ragged individual with
awe because I knew that he was a political
fugitive trapped in a system he once had the
bails to change.
Excubus: Who's after you?
Mr. X.: They are, the guys who want to kill
me, because I knowtoomuch.Ozzy Osbourne
put cameras in my eyes and I am going to
expose you.
Ya, brother, viva revolution, fear of a black
planet! Armageddon! Carry me home!
Do you have a cigarette? Give me one1
I don't smoke.
I am going to expose you.  I am Jesus Christ,
you are all fucked. I am going to expose all of
you.
Suddenly security arrived and asked him
to leave. The "man" had arrived to bring Mr. X
down but he didn't give upas they man-handled
him out of the ma!!; he screamed to expose
them, used profanity not to offend the public but
as an exclamation of frustration about this society we live in. One day, Mr. X, the masses will
rise up and follow you and your friend Ozzy
Osbourne into a Utopia where cigarettes afe
free and there are riversof chocolate milk. Don't
quit, expose us all!
I haven't seen Mr. X in at least two weeks. I
hope he's okay.
Weeelillllll, it's alternative tip time,
you hardcore, no-posers-here, l-liked-
Sonic-Youth-tirst, dye-my-hair-
b lack, wanna- be -Peter -Murphy-
Morrissey-kids. That's all of you..
1) Okay, you've dyed your hair black,
now get a part of your body pierced that
you cover wilh a swimsuit.
2) Adopt the attitude "I'm more alternative than you'...oops most of you have1
3) Get a tattoo of one of the following,
depending on what alternative group
you betong:
—Skull skate logo
—Black Flag bars
—thorns or a cross
—an anarchy symbol even if you
know nothing about politics,
—the initials F.T.W.
Goodnight Kids, Goodnight Mr. X.
BY EXCUBUS MANSLAUGHTER
Thinking of a Car Rsdiotelophone? SUNDAYS
ARE YOU SERIOUS? MUSIC 8:00AM-
12:00PM Allof time is measured by its art.
Most broadcasting shuns art for incestuous market-music. Thisshowpresentsthe
most recent new music from around the
world. Ears open. Hosted by Paul
Steenhuisen and lan Crutchley.
THE BRUNCH REPORT 12:00-12:15PM
erDepart-
CiTR News, Sports and W
THE ROCKERS SHOW    12:15-3:00PM
Hosts: George Barrett and Mike Cherry.
Reggae inna all styles and fashion.
Dancehall, Dub, Roots. Lovers-rock, Rock
Steady, Ska and beyond!
SOUL CHURCH 3:00-5:00 PM Alternating
Sundays with Brent Argo. Vancouver's
only program devoted entirely to African-
Canadfan and African- American Gospel
music. Your rotating hosts are Vence Yeh
and Dave Langille (every second week).
Dec. 6 Vince picks out the most suitable Gospeltunesfor those pre-final exam
over-stressed students. Tune in!
BLACK MUSIC 6:00-8:OOPM Everything
Iromthe African-American tradition: Blues.
Gospel, Jazz, Soul, R&B, Funk Hip Hop,
and current Dance Tracks. Mouldy vinyl to
shiny CDs. Your host, Lachlan Murray.
LULUS BACK IN TOWN 8:00-9:00PM Tune
in as your hosts Vinnie Carpelli and Sonny
Prince play some of the hottest crooners
on wax. Names like Tony Bennett, Sammy
Davis, Jr.. Engebert Humperdinck and
many, many more...lots of great cuts and
plenty of polyester.
GEETANJAU 9:00-10:00PM Geelanjaliisa
one-hour radio show which features a
wide range of music from India This includes classical music, both Hindustani
and Carnatic. popular music from Indian
movies from the 1930s to the 1990's,
Semi-classical music such as Ghazals
and Bhajans, and also Quawwalis, Folk
Songs, etc. Hosted by J. Dhar, A. Patel
and V. Ran Jan.
RADIO FREE AMERICA 10:00PM-12:00AM
Join host Dave Emory and colleague Nip
Tuck for some extraordinary political re-
searchguaranteedtomakeyouthinktwice.
Bring your tape deck and two C-90s. Originally broadcast on KFJC (Los Altos. California).
MONDAYS
THE MORNING SHOW 7:30-8:15AM Wake
up with the CiTR Moming Show. All the
news, sports and weather you need to
start your day. Plus what's happening al
UBC each day with UBC Digest, a feature
interview and more. Topped off with the
BBC World Service News at 8:00AM.
live from London, England. Hosted today
by Bill Currie.
BREAKFAST WITH THE BROWNS 8:15-
11:00AM Your favourite brown-sters,
James and Peter, offer a savoury blend of
the familiar and exotic in an excitingly
luscious blend of aural delights! Tune in
and enjoy each weekly brown plate spe-
DONAND GOURD-STUPIDRADIO SHOW
11:00 AM-1:00 PM So they asked me Is
this music **■ Noon feature: "Crucifix In
Your Ear."
THE AFTERNOON REPORT 1:00-1:15PM
News, sports and weather.
MEKANIKAL OBJEKT NOIZE 1:15-3:00PM
CiTRs only all industrial / technical / electronic show wih different feature albums
every week. Wih your dj pal, June. Cevin
Key ikes some of you.
SONIC SALAD 3:0O-4:0OPM Funkier than
nine cans of shaving powder.
STRAIGHT OUTTA JALLUNDHAR 4:00-
5:00PM Let DJs Jindwa and Bindwa immerse you inradioact ive Bhungra!"Chakkh
dephutay". Listen to all ourfavorfte Punjabi
tunes - remixes and originals. Brraaaah!
THE QTR DINNER REPORT 5:00-5:30PM
All the latest on campus: news, sporls, an
in-depth interview, theatre or film review,
editorial commentary and more. Week
days with host lan Gunn.
BOXER SHORT BOYZ 7:00-9:00PM Just a
couple of guys who like to walk around in
their boxer shorts with their big fat guts
hanging out. Jerome Broadway and Garnet Timothy Harry alternate weeks.
THE JAZZ SHOW 9:00PM-12:00AM
Vancouver'slongest running prime time jazz
program Hosted by the ever-suave Gavin
Waker. Features at 11.
Dec. 7: "The Montgomery Brothers"
were just that.... The greal Wes (guitar),
Buddy (piano) and Monk (acoustic bass),
plus drummer Bobby Thomas...lor a short
great one too! Tonight their finest abum
Dec. 14: Frank Rosolino was one of
the finest trombonists in Jazz... his life a
triumph and his death (suicide) a terrible
waste. One of hisfinest records was never
released during his lifetime. Tonight we
hear H..."FreeForAH"wKhthegreal Harold
Land (tenor saxophone), Victor Feldman
(piano) and others.
Dec. 21: A VERY MERRY CHRISTMAS FROM THE JAZZ SHOW TO ALL
ITS DEVOTED LISTENERS: Tonight the
famous Christmas Eve all-star session
led by Miles Davis (trumpet), Milt Jackson
(vbraharp), Thelonious Monk (piano).
Percy Heath (bass) and Kenny Clarke
(drums). The year was 1954 and the
music has influenced how we all hear
Jazz right up to the present.
Dec. 28: Our last show for 1992 features a classic: "Sweet Rain", one of Stan
Getz' superbr recordings. The late great
tenor saxophonist in full flight wilh Chick
Corea (piano), Ron Carter (acoustic bass)
and Grady Tate (drums). HAPPY NEW
YEAR TO ALL!
TUESDAYS
THE MORNING SHOW    7:30-8:15AM
Hosted by Antje Rauwerda.
MADONNA DEATH WATCH 8:15-11.00AM
Two _cks who don't know shit.
DOGS BREAKFAST 11KMAM-1:00PMMy
Helen G.
BLOOD ON THE SADDLE
Country music to:
boots to. With yer host-poke Jeff Gray.
UVE FROM VENUS 3:00-5:00PM Women
- music and st
Tilley.
MEET IDA BEAN 6:00-7:00PM Rap, hip
hop,and Super Dope Lyrics- so fty that
you'll do 3-5 just for getting caught listening
totha stuff. Requests are taken...if you can
get through on the phone! Ida Bean's on
the tip!
THE UNHEARD MUSIC 7:00-9:OOPM Meat
the unherd where the unheard and the
hordes of hardy herd and heard, courtesy
of host and demo director Dale Sawyer.
Herd up!
AVANT-PIG 9:0OPM-12:O0AM Alternating
Tuesdays with Wolf at the Door. Nowthree
hours of lunky, ambient noise-piggery with
Pete Lutwyche.
WOLF AT THE DOOR 9:OOPM-12:O0AM
Alternating Tuesdays with Avant-Pig. The
latest in dance music and interestingdrama
every second week. With Lupus
Yonderboy.
AURAL TENTACLES MIDNITE UNTIL THE
MOON DROPS Fun for the whole family to
THEMORNINGSHOW 7:30-8:15AM Hosted
by Antje Rauwerda.
CANADIAN LUNCH 11:00-1:00PM Toques,
plaids, backbacon, beer, igloos, snowmobiles, beavers & Brian Mulroney. H you
love Canada, tune in and eat your lunch to
Canadian music. Previously Coralation.
POPGUN 1:00-3:00PM "Why don't you love
ME as much as I bve YOU ?"
FLEX YOUR HEAD 3:00_:00PM
-—HARD JINX—-
-—ERIC CORE-
OUT   FOR   KICKS   6:00-7:30PM   No
Birkenstocks.nothingpolitically correct. We
donl get paki so you're damn right we
have fun with it. Hosted by Chris B.
RED HOT AND BLUE 7:30-9:00PM Roots
music, rhythm and blues, rock 'n roll, and
who knows what, hosted by Eddie J.
LIVE FROM THUNDERBIRD RADIO HELL
9:00-11:00PM   Local muzsakc from 9.
Hollywood and locally produced films on
Vancouver's only all-movie radb show
hosted by two actual film students. Jason
and Steve.
COCKTAILSWITH DARYL ANDSUSI6A0-
9:00PM Underground sound system-
style mastermix radb.
71 10.
Doc. 3
of tuneage, Pierre and tin
by lan Gunn.
NOOLEY TUNES 1:15-3:00PM Spinning the
best and worst of CiTR's playlist, only the
most original requests will be remotely
considered. Emphasis will be on new material Irom around the world, regardless ol
NORMAN'SKITCHEN3:00-5:00PM Weplay
everything from Southern Iranian Funk
Punk to Psycho Spasmatic Hypercore.
Sorry no requests.
ESOTERC5:15-6:00PMDJsTripandGustav
take you where you didn't want to go.
ENTERTAINMENT 9^0-12.-00PM Only the
third Radb   Program in the history ol
ing aHd the world's problems. Radb that
believes in confusion, noise, peace, bve,
aggression and maybe even EVOLUTION.
OPEN COUNTRY JOY 12:00-4:00AM,THE
FIRST WED. OF EVERY MONTH. Dont
let the ?#?%?@? fool you.
THURSDAYS
8
9
10
11
12
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
1
2
3
4
I ■* I;
SUN        MON        TUE        WED        THU        FRI
(■■ H.lMl.M.lJi
SAT
ARE YOU
SERIOUS?
MUSIC
BRENT
ARGO/
SOUL
CHURCH
—W
-■l^-i-l'M-l.'ll.*-*-!-.!'
BREAKFAST
WITH THE
BROWNS
DON AND
GOURDS
STUPID
RADIO SHOW
MEKANIKAL
OBJEKT
NOIZE
SONIC SALAD
JALLUNDAR
MADONNA
DEATH
WATCH
BROADCASTING
LIVE FROM
VENUS
GEETANJALI
ONE STEP
BEYOND/
RADIO FREE
AMERICA
IN THE GRIP
OF INCOHERENCY
BOXER
SHORT
BOYZ
mm*m \\M^^mmmMiim&m r
WOLF AT
THE DOOR/
AVANT PIG
AURAL
TENTACLES
DIGITAL
ALARM
CHRONOMETER
MAPLE
SYRUP &
BACK BACON
TALES FROM
THE INFINITE
LIVINGROOM
COUVDETAT
LIVE FROM
THUNDERBIRD
RADIO HELL
MEGABLAST!
HIGHANXIETY
NOIZ ONE/
NARDWUAR/
NOIZ TWO
THE
SATURDAY
EDGE
8
9
10
11
 I 4 o
BOOZE      fcOEE^2
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
1
2
3
4
COCKTAILS
WITH DARYL
AND
SUSI
LIMP S*NK 12:30AM-Morning   Giving up
very vulnerable slate of clamy indifference. Last time this happened I lost a little
more than my disposable diapers. I wasn't
about to give up though, not af
h. With rr
Dec. 31: No Boundary Condition
RADIO TRANSUBSTANTIATION YEA
WWOD. 11PM-1AM Alternating Thursdays with
Gigablast. Kaptain Kill and Wild E Coyote
the     hanging     soundgardens    ol
psychobabybn! Turn on to radio T.Y.'s
New Year's Rockin' Eve!
MEGABLAST! 1:00 AM-WHEN U STOP US-
fingers gripped
around the base ol the mind cycle I gave
it a hefty twist Northward but to no avail.
My pants remained soiled.
Dec. 4: Farmer Fritter and Planter Pat
discover BBQ Sauce
Dec. 11: Doctor Kildare
discornbobulates in Capt. Static's mouth
Dec. 18: Farmer Fritter and Planter
Pat pick their noses digging lor gold
Dec. 25: Ifs Christmas! Are we on?
P.S. The Doclor is seeking lots ol people to
send in lots of things. Make 'em ordinal
and make 'em good. Send them to Limp
Sink c/o Discorder/CiTR.
SATURDAYS
THE SATURDAY EDGE 8:00 AM-12:00PM
Vancouver's biggest and besl acoustic/
roots'rogue radio show. Now in its 6th
year on CiTR! Roots music from around
POWERCHORD
:15-3:0OPM
THE CiTR DINNER REPORT 5:00-5:20PM
With The Voice of Reason," our weekly
look back al the week in the news, tongues
firmly in cheek
THE THUNDERBIRD PREVIEW 5:20-
5:30PM The Sports Department's preview ot what'll be goin' down this weekend,
PROJECTIONS 5:30- 6:00PM Projections:
African house party. Stories, music, dance
fun. Welcome! Your host: Umerah.
THE SATURDAY MAGAZNE 5:00-5:30PM
UBC's weekend news. All the latest news,
sporls, weather, a movie review, lealure
report and more. News with Luc Dinsdale:
Doug Richards has sports.
IN EFFECT 6:00-8:0OPM The Hip Hop beat
THE HEIMLICH MANOUVRE8:00-
0:00PM
GROOVE JUMPING
10:00PM
T :00AM
Hostess Twinkies™
ohnplay
really loud shil. Bite
SOMETHING   1:00-4
00AM   A
ute little
kind of joke th,
WHOM   &   HOW
A RTS SHAWN BOUCHARD
BOARD CHAIR   HARRY HERTSCHEG
CURRENT AFFAIRS IAN GUNN
DEMOS/CASSETTES DALE  SAWYER
ENGINEER        RICHARD ANDERSON
ENTERTAINMENT     TANIA ALEKSON
MOBILE SOUND DRU  PAVLOV
MUSIC MINDY ABRAMOWITZ
NEWS IAN GUNN
PRESIDENT
PRODUCTION
PROGRAMMING
PROMOTIONS
SECRETARY
SPORTS
DRU PAVLOV
JUSTIN LEIGH
BOOTSY SLOAN
A.O. CHAPMAN
CORAL SHORT
MARK DINSDALE
STATION MANAGER LINDA SCHOLTEN
STUDENT ENGINEER ADAM SLOAN
VICE PRESIDENT HELEN GODOLPHIN
VOLUNTEER COORDINATOR     JOHN RUSKIN
BUSINESS LINE 604/822-301 7
DJ LINE 604/822-2487 (UBC-CiTR)
NEWS LINE   604/222-2487 (222-CiTR)
FAX LINE 604/822-9364
ENVOY ID CITR.FM
DECEMBER ?4-HltffiUfJ;
aaaw,a,
,a  y ^^x'a--*   v
DiSCORDER DATEBOOK
the Vancouver East Cultural Centre... I
Piece of Germany (7:15pm) and In
Cinematheque...
TUE 1 Veda Hille with Bones & Feathers at the Railway... Cruel 70s Disco at the Cruel
Elephant... CBC Radio Young Composers Competition Finals at the Hotel Vancouver
(5pm)... Megadeth with Suicidal Tendencies at Ihe PNE Forum... Ferron, Greg Brown,
Patty Larkin at the Vancouver East Cultural Cenlre... Blue Rodeo with Lucinda Williams
at the Commodore... David Campbell book launch at Ihe Pitt Gallery... Blast 'Em (7:30pm
& 9:35pm) at Ihe Ridge... The Wall (7:30pm) and Leipzig in Autumn plus The New Look
ol Wandlitz (9:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
WED 2 The Smalls with Imagineers and Confused? at the Cruel Elephant... Sue Leonard
Band at the Railway... Kashtin at the Orpheum... Tragically Hip al the PNE Forum...
TanyaTuc ker at the Cloverdaie Agnplex... Howard Ursuliak's inter-face [pa rt2] exhibit ion
opens at Access (until the 19th)... Blast 'Em (7:30pm & 9:35pm) at the Ridge... Tampopo
(7pm) and Leningrad Cowboys Go America (9:30pm) at UBC SUB Cinema... Swedish
Avant-garde Rim: Programme One 1924-1969 (7:30pm) and Programme Two 1970-
1990 (9:05pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
THU 3 Wool with Mr Wrong and Tongues & Bones at the Cruel Elephant... Two Left Feet
at the UBC Pit Pub (Iree)... Sue Leonard Band at the Railway... Connie Kaldor al the
Vancouver East Cultural Centre... Skip Prest at Picadilly Pub... Dave Alvin with The
Skeletons at the Backstage (Seattle)... A Musical Accuracy: A Fiction at the Heart of
Documentary lecture byTrinhTMinh-ha at the UBC Museum ol Anthropology (7:30 pm)...
Blast 'Em (7:30pm & 9:35pm) at the Ridge... Tampopo (7pm) and Leningrad Cowboys
Go America (9:30pm) al UBC SUB Cinema... Frenzy with lecture presentation: Shari
Graydon on "Violence Against Women in the Media and Frenzy" (7:30pm) al Pacific
Cinematheque...
FRI 27 Brain Jam, Elvis Love Child, Zen, Starboys al the Cruel Elephant... Culture
Jacques al the Railway... Primal Orbit al the Glass Slipper... Linton Garner Trio al
Hollywood North... Skydiggers with Hard Rock Miners at the Commodore... Brooks
Kenna al Picadilly Pub... Guitar Shorty at Ihe Yale... Curse of the Homo video installation
closes at the Pitt Gallery... 12 Midnite's Gunland exhibition continues at Smash Gallery
(until the 23rd)... Patrick Mahon's Spectacular Viewhome exhibition coniinues at the Or
Gallery (until the 5th)... Where the Streams Become a River exhibition continues at the
Vancouver Art Gallery (until the 3rd)... Eadweard Muybridge's Motion & Document /
Sequence & Time exhibilion continues at Presentation House (until Dec 13th)... Erin
O'Brien & Sheila Ayearst exhibition continues at Artspeak (until Ihe 19th)... Blast 'Em
(7:30pm & 9:35pm) at the Ridge... Monty Python's The Meaning of Life (9pm) and
Honeymoon in Vegas (9:30pm) at UBC SUB Cinema... The Wall (8pm) at Pacific
Cinematheque with Opening Night Reception (7:15pm)... Anne Mortifee's Reflections on
Crooked Walking at the Arts Club Mainstage (until the 30th)... Lola MacLaughlin Dance's
Eternal Return at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre... The Belle of Amherst continues
at Vancouver Little Theatre (until the 29th)... The Marriage of Bette and Boo continues al
Studio 58 (until the 6th)... Agnes of God continues at Jericho Gym (until the 13th)...
SAT 28 Sloan with Nova Mob and BUM al the New Yo* Theatre (7:30, all ages)... No
Fun with cub at Ihe Cruel Elephant... Culture Jacques al Ihe Railway... Nusrat Fateh Ali
Khan at the Queen Elizabeth Theatre (6:30pm)... Paul Dolden Ensemble at the Glass
Slipper... Linton GarnerTrio at Hollywood North... Jr. Gone Wild at the Town Pump... Kin
Lalat, Ngoma, Ache Brasil at La Quena... Irish Ceili at the WISE Hall... Guitar Shorty al
the Yale... Irish Ceili al the ANZA Club... Youssou N'Dour with the Super Stars Band al
the Commodore... Noise Prom #1 with Daytona, Vintage TT & DJ George at the Pitt
Gallery... Ragga Muffin Rascals at the Vancouver East Cultural Cenlre (2pm)... Ani
Difranco at the Backstage (Seattle)... Hand of Spirit exhibition closes at UBC Fine Arts
Gallery... Rhoda Rosenleld's Dark Works 1988-1992 exhibitionclosesat the Contemporary
Art Gallery... Personal Histories: Radical Transformations of the Documetary Format
at Video In (1-4pm)... Blast 'Em (7:30pm & 9:35pm) at Ihe Ridge... Monty Python's The
Meaning of Life (9pm) and Honeymoon in Vegas (9:30pm) at UBC SUB Cinema...
Locked Up Time (7:30pm) and Friedrichstrasse Station, Berlin 1990 (9:15pm) at Pacific
Cinematheque... Lola MacLaughlin Dance's Eternal Return al the Vancouver EastCultural
SUN 29 Mudhoney, Eugenius, Supersuckers at the Commodore... Dub Party
Snobordbash with Snobord videos, DJ Kilogee, skale demos, and live dub wilh The
Rootabegas at the Nappy Dugout (all ages, 5pm)... Soup Dragons at 86 Streel... Bruce
Freedman Trio at the Glass Slipper... Tom Northcott with Lingo Sisters al Ihe Vancouver
Museum... Masterpiece Chamber Music: Basically Baroque al Ihe Vancouver East
Cultural Centre... The Chalice Choir at the Unitarian Church (949 E 49)... Lucinda
Williams wilh Blue Rodeo at the Backstage (Seattle)... Thomas Ruff: Junge Leute
exhibition closes at the Goethe-Institute... Personal Histories: Radical Transformations
of the Documetary Format at Video In (1-4pm)... Blast 'Em (7:30pm & 9:35pm) at the
Ridge... Monty Python's The Meaning of Life (9pm) and Honeymoon in Vegas (9:30pm)
at UBC SUB Cinema... November Days/Novembertage (7:15pm) and GDR - Untitled
(9:40pm) at Pacific Cinematheque... The Belle of Amherst closes at Vancouver Little
MON 30 CiTR Shindig with Darkest of the Hillside Thickets, Movieland, Woo Woos
at the Railway... Tumbleweed at the ANZA Club... Ferron, Greg Brown, Patty Larkin at
THE BLANK GENERATION
FRI 4 Coal with cub at Smash Gallery... The Nylons al the Commodore.. Strange Angel
at the Railway... Skits at the Glass Slipper... Leslie Spit Tree-0 at Ihe Town Pump...
Connie Kaldor at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre... Skip Prest at Picadilly Pub.. La
Guitaromanie at Kitsilano Neighbourhood House (2325 W 7)... Tito Puente at the
Backstage (Seattle)... 10,000 Celebrations art exhibition at Ihe Pitt Gallery (until the
24th)... Husbands and Wives (7:30pm) and Manhattan (9:35pm) at ihe Ridge... Shoot for
the Contents with in person: Trinh T Minh-ha (7:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
SAT 5 Sprinkler with Pond and Hazel at the Cruel Elephant... Strange Angel al the
Railway... Robin Shier Quartet al Ihe Glass Slipper... Leslie Spit Tree-0 al Ihe Town
Pump... Connie Kaldor al the Vancouver East Cultural Cenlre... Country Dance at the
WISE Hall... Festival de la Salsa '92 al ihe Commodore... Skip Prest al Podilly Pub...
Guy Clark at the Backstage (Seattle)... Lorna Brown's Once Removed exhibilion opens
at the Contemporary Art Gallery (until Jan 16th)... Husbands and Wives (7:30pm) and
Manhattan (9:35pm) at the Ridge... Shoot for the Contents (7:30pm) and Surname Viet
Given Name Nam (9:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
SUN 6 Wool, Seed, Man at Nappy Dugout (5pm, all ages).,. Sonic Boom! 6th Annual
Festival of Composers al the Vancouver East Cullural Centre... Husbands and Wives
(7:30pm) and Manhattan (9:35pm) at Ihe Ridge... Surname Viet Given Name Nam
(7:30pm) and Naked Spaces: Living Is Round (9:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
MON 7 CiTR Shindig! with Twitch, Brand New Unit, TBA at the Railway... Sonic Boom!
6th Annual Festival of Composers at the Vancouver East Cultural Centre... Bob Roberts
(7:30pm) and The Player (9:35pm) at the Ridge... Reassemblage (7:30pm) and Naked
Spaces: Living Is Round (8:30pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
TU E 8 Harp Dog Brown & the Bloodhounds at the Railway... Cruel 70s Disco at the Cruel
Elephant... Vic Chesnutt & His Little Sharpie with Terry Lee Hale at the Backstage
(Seattle)... Clare Gomez-Edington's Don't Let Them See You Coming exhibition opens
at the Or Gallery (until the 23rd)... Bob Roberts (7:30pm) and The Player (9:35pm) at the
Ridge... To Canada with Love and Some Misgivings (7:30pm. Iree) at Pacific
Cinematheque...
WED 9 Facepuller wilh Changeling andTouch 'n' Gos at the Cruel Elephant... Harp Dog
Brown & the Bloodhounds al the Railway... Antonia and Jane (7:30pm) and Salmon-
berries (9:05pm) at Ihe Ridge... Swedish Avant-garde Film: Programme One 1924-1969
(7:30pm) and Programme Two 1970-1990 (9:05pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
THU 10 Vic Chesnutt & His Little Sharpie with Zumpanno at the Cruel Elephant... Fast
Folk Underground al ihe Railway... Fred Hersch Trio at the Glass Slipper... Cadillac
Tramps at the Town Pump... Roy Kiyooka, Gerald Creede, Jam Ismail poelry reading
at the Vancouver Art Gallery (8pm, free)... Antonia and Jane (7:30pm) and Salmonberries
(9:05pm) at the Ridge... Narrative Practices with Tess Payne at Video In (8pm)... Swedish
Avant-garde Rim: Programme Three: The Films of Gunvor Nelson (7:30pm) and
Programme Four: The Films of Peter Weiss and Olle Hedman (9:30pm) al Pacilic
Cinematheque...
FRI 11 CiTR Shindig! Grand Finals at the Cruel Elephant... Patrick Ball al the WISE
Hall... Hard Rock Miners al the Railway... Dee Daniels al Hollywood North... Spirit of the
West wilh The Waltons at the Commodore... Kiss, Great White, Trixter al the Coliseum...
North of Pittsburgh (7:15pm & 9:30pm) at the Ridge...Two Friends (7:30pm) and A Girl's
Own Stories: Short Films by Jane Campion (9:05pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
SAT 12 Hard Rock Miners at the Railway... Dee Daniels at Hollywood North... Spirit of
the West withThe Waltons at theCommodore (3:30pm allages, 8pm licensed)...Christine
Lavin at the Backstage (Seattle)... North of Pittsburgh (7:15pm & 9:30pm) at the Ridge...
Writing with Narrative Forms with Tess Payne at Video In (1-4pm)... A Portuguese
Farewell (7:30pm) and Hard Times (9:15) at Pacific Cinematheque...
SUN 13 Verbal Abuse, El Caminos, Peanut Gallery, Unsound at Nappy Dugout (5pm,
all ages)... Vancouver Men's Chorus at the Hotel Vancouver... North of Pittsburgh
(7:15pm & 9:30pm) at the Ridge... The Second Circle (7:15pm) and Days of the Eclipse
(9:05pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
MON 14 Touch'n Gos with Motor Cycle at the Railway... Vancouver Men's Chorus at
the Hotel Vancouver... North of Pittsburgh (7:15pm & 9:30pm) at the Ridge... Family
Viewing (7:30pm) and The Adjuster (9:15pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
WED 16 Soul Asylum, Lemonheads, Jayhawks at the Commodore... Jazzmanian
Devils at the Railway... North of Pittsburgh (7:15pm & 9:30pm) at the Ridge... Young
Soul Rebels (7:30pm) and Looking for Langston (9:30pm) at Pacilic Cinematheque...
THU 17 Jazzmanian Devils at the Railway... North of Pittsburgh (7:15pm & 9:30pm) at
the Ridge... Ariel (7:30pm) and Leningrad Cowboys Go America (9pm) at Pacilic
Cinematheque...
FRI 18 Alice in Chains, Screaming Trees, Gruntruckat 86 Street... Jazzmanian Devils
at the Railway... The Squirrels Xmas Party at the Backstage (Seattle)... North of
Pittsburgh (7:15pm & 9:30pm) at the Ridge... King Lear (7:30pm) and Poison (9:15pm)
at Pacific Cinematheque...
SAT 19 Jazzmanian Devils at the Railway... North of Pittsburgh (7:15pm & 9:30pm) at
the Ridge...The Element of Crime (7:30pm)and Europa (9:30pm)atPaoficCinematheque...
SUN 20 Black Happy at Nappy Dugout (5pm, all ages)... Ministry, Helmet, Sepultura
at the PNE Forum... North of Pittsburgh (7:15pm & 9:30pm) at the Ridge... Mala Noche
(7:30pm) and My Own Private Idaho (9:10pm) at PacificCinematheque...
MON 21 Hum Buzz Thing CD release party at the Railway... Enchanted Pearl (7:30pm)
and Howards End (9:25pm) at the Ridge... Ju Dou (7:30pm) and Raise the Red Lantern
(9:20pm) at Pacific Cinematheque...
MON 28   G.I. Blues at the Railway...
TUE 29  Jimmy Roy's 5 Star Hillbilly Boys at the Railway...
WED 30  Jimmy Roy's 5 Star Hillbilly Boys at the Railway...
THU 31   Allen Ginsberg, Allen Watts & Steve Allen at Ihe Backstage (Seattle)...
VENUES VENUES VENUES VENUES VENUES
Access Gallery • #26-448 Seymour
Alma Street Cafe • 2505 Alma (at Broadway)
Artspeak Gallery • #3-3110 West Hastings
Cafe Bergman • 52 Powell (Gastown)
Cafe Django • 1184 Denman (at Davie)
Commodore Ballroom • 870 Granville (Granville Mall)
Contemporary Art Gallery • 555 Hamilton
Cruel Elephant • 23 West Cordova (Gastown)
86 Street • Plaza of Nations (BC Enterprise Centre)
Glass Slipper • 185 East 11th Avenue (at Main)
Hollywood North • 856 Seymour
Isadora's • 1540 Old Bridge (Granville Island)
Latin Quarter 1305 Commercial Drive
Maximum Blues Pub • 1176 Granville (at Davie)
Nappy Dugout • 1248 Seymour (at Davie)
Or Gallery • 314 West Hastings
Paradise Cinema • 919 Granville (Granville Mall)
Park Theatre -3440 Cambie
Picadilly Pub • 630 West Pender
Pit Pub • basement, Student Union Building (UBC)
Pitt Gallery • 317 West Hastings
Queen Elizabeth Theatre • Hamilton at Georgia
Railway Club • 579 Dunsmuir (at Seymour)
Ridge Cinema • 3131 Arbutus at 16th
Sandy Cove • 1554 Marine Drive, West Vancouver
Smash Gallery • 160 West Cordova (at Cambie)
Speedy O'Tubbs • Fairview, Bellingham
Starlight Cinema • 935 Denman
Town Pump • 66 Water Street (Gastown)
Vancouver East Cultural Centre • 1895 Venables
Varsity Theatre «4375 West 10th Avenue
Video In • 1102 Homer
Waterfront Theatre • 1405 Anderson (Granville Island)
Western Front • 303 East 8th Avenue
WISE Club • 1882 Adanac (At Victoria)
Yale* 1300 Granville (at Drake)	 CATCH  ALL
THE ACTION!
SPECIAL
ARRANGEMENTS?
CALL   JEFF
HARVEY  AT
822-65 I I
ALTERNATIVE MONDAYS!
BANDS START §9:
ADMISSION FREE!
THE PIT PUB • IN THE BASEMENT OF THE STUDENT UNION BUILDING, 6138 SUB BLVD. • 604-822-6511 1869 W 4th Ave..
Vancouver BC
V6J1M4
CANADA
tel-6M.738.3232
STORE
HOURS
Mon to Wed 10:30-7:00
Thurs and Fri 10:30 - 9.00
Sat 10:30 - 6:30
Sun 12:00-6:00
Tiied of the "Same Old
Christmas Favorites"?
life sure are! £_|£
No one is arguing that Nat King Cole was a brilliant singer. But jeez, you can only hear
that version of The Christmas Song" so many times. So uie decided to do something
about it. While eueryone else is trotting out the same tired old Christmas albums. Zulu
has amassed a collection of some exceptionally cool Christmas music that you can
actually ENJOYI Just take a look at this list. Check it twice. There's plenty of imports
and they're all specially priced...
CD
Bobby Sherman ® Christmas Album U.98
Booker T and the MGs ■•■ In the Christmas Spirit 14.98
James Brown ® Santa's Got a Brand New Bag 16.98
Bobby Darin • 25th Day of December 14.98
Spike Jones ® A Spike Jones Christmas 16.98
Peggy Lee • Christmas Carousel U.98
Mojo Nixon ® Horny Holidays 16.98
NRBQ® Christmas Wish n/a
Buck Owens ® Christmas with Buck U.98
Partridge Family • Christmas Carol 16.98
Ventures ® Christmas Album U.98
Jackie Wilson ® Merry Christmas From Jackie 16.98
Various (Blue Note) ® Yule Struttin' 16.98
Various §> Reggae Christmas 16.98
Various (R&B) • Hipsters Holiday 16.98
CASS
9.98
9.98
8.98
7.98
9.98
8.98
9.98
9.98
9.98
9.98
Various (Rhino Records) • Have Yourself a Merry Xmas 16.98 n/a
Various (Polygram Jazz) • Have Yourself a Jazzy Xmas 16.98 9.98
Various » Dr Demento's Greatest Xmas Novelties 16.98 n/a
Various® Doo Wop Christmas U.98       8.98
Various ® Cool Yule (Best of Volumes 1 &2) 16.98       9.98
Various (Stax Records) ® It's Christmas Time Again 16.98       9.98
Various ® Bummed Out Christmas 16.98       9.98
Various ® Phil Specter's Christmas Album 16.98       9.98
Various (Cajun Xmas Music) ■• Alligator Stomp U.98       8.98
Various ® Rhythm and Blues Christmas 16.98       9.98
Various® Billboard R&B Christmas Hits U.98       8.98
Various® Blue Yule U.98       9.98
Various ® Have a Merry Chess Clristmas       . 8.98       4.98
Attention Shoppers! .__.
These Zulu Releases Are In Stores 4  x
How For Your Xmas Gift-Giving Delight!
Coal
® Coal
Why give a gift when you
can give a lump of Coal?
Under the tree or in a
sock. Coal's debut album
makes a wunnerful
wunnerful gift for one
and all. Available from
Zulu at the rock-bottom
price of...
14.98cd
9.98cass
COAL LIVE!
Smash Gallery
Friday December 4
w/Cub& 12 midnite
Perfume Tree
® Dust
Why settle for a
Christmas tree when you
can enjoy a Perfume
Tree? The advantages
are numerous —
no messy needles, no
treacherous fire hazard,
and just try sticking a
coniferous in your CD
player! All at a price
that will definitely grow
on you...
14.98cd
9.98cass
Last Call
Vancouver
Independent
Music
1977-1988
This comprehensive 2CD
anthology ofthe Vancouver
indie scene still makes a
great gift And it'll last
longer than your Christmas
good cheer. Lotsa tunes,
not a lot of dough...
24.98
2cds
Also Available At:
A&B Sound. Black Swan Records, Scratch Records, and Track Records
New at Zulu!
I We're rapidly running out of room here Only a little bit of space
| left to tell you about some cool neui stuff that's just arrived...
14.98cd / 9.98cass
Ween
• Pure Guava
Shimmy Disc Records' Ween have made the jump to Warners, with their confident innovative song
structures intact "Guava" still keeps them far left of most "left-field" music. Jonathan Richman meets
Negativland. Madonna they're not!
Superchunk
® Mower ep 7.98 cd ep
Superchunk continue to ringmaster this circus known as college rock
with their latest CD single. "Mower". Featuring two new studio tracks and
a very aggressive live version of "Fishing". Superchunk put the snap and
crackle back into indie pop—just what we've come to expect from
them.
Also Worth A Gander..
Curve ® Pubic Fruit
Mekons ® Wicked Midnight (Mini LP)   10.98
Ice Cube ® Predator U.98
D.O.A. ® .13 Flavours of Doom U.98
CASS
9.98
7.98
9.98
9.98
Zulu Clearance. Low-Price,
Fist-Come-First Served,
Get-lm-Qutta-Here-lfoui,
Bloui-Out CD Specials
We re tired of lookiri at em, so we're
kicking em out the door at outrageous
prices. Host are imports too!
Apotheosis   • OFortunaEP 6.98
Bongwater   • Big Sell Out 12.98
Ray Condo ® Condo Country 10.98
Chris Connelly ® Whiplash Boychild 10.98
Hugh Cornwall • Wolf 6.98
Chris and Cosey   • Synaesthesia EP 5.98
Dickies  • 2nd Coming 6.98
Dinosaur Jr.   • Whatever* Cool With Me EP 5.98
(UK Version-4 songs)
Hunters and Collectors ® Ghost Nation 6.98
Manic St Preachers * Generation Terrorists 8.98
MegacityA  • Sebastopot Rd. 12.98
My Life... Thrill Kill Kutl  • Sexplosion EP 6.98
My Sisters Machine ® Diva 10.98
Pavement ® Trigger Cut EP 6.98
Pursuit of Hapiness ® Love Junk 6.98
Rein Sanction • Brocs Cabin 18.98
Revolver • Baby's Angry 12.98
Seahags ® Seahags 6.98
Jules Sheer  • Great Puzzle (w/bonus CD) 14.98
Pete Shelley 0 Heaven and the Sea 6.98
Shriekback • Go Bang 6.98
Sisters of Mercy ® Some Girts Wander By 14.98
Patb Smith ® Dream of Life 6.98
(Soundtrack-JoeStrummer) ® Walker 6.98
(Soundtrack)  0 Permament Record 6.98
Chris Spedding 0 Cafe Days 14.98
Stump » A Fierce Pancake 6.98
12.91
Teenage Fandub  • God Knows Its True EP 5.98
13 Engines ® A Blur To Me Now 12.98
(Various - Nettwerk) • Dead Times Exploding 12.98
(Variousl   • Fortune Cookie Prize 12.98
(Tribute to Beat Happening)
Wailers Band ® I.D. 6.98
Sale Prices in Effect
Until the End of
December 1992.
Zulu wishes everyone a
hip happening holiday!