 {.  0\$COftO£t\
at:
em
fpl
Fuck Me USA by Kim Day p.9
Nardwuar verses The Kings of Leon p.10
Kutcorners by Jenn Wong p.l 3
The Red Light Sting's CMJ Diary p.14
Sub Pop is Label of the Year!! by Merek p.16
Death From Above by Ian Gormely p.l 9
The Department of Safety by Merek p.20
The Discorder Christmas Questionnaire p.22
Luke Meat's 2003 review p.34
ft'
?#«C
f&r$
Editor:
Merek
Wrangler:
Lori
Covering Fire p.4
SHiNDiG Report p.5
Textually Active p.6
Riff Raff p.6
Strut, Fret and Flicker p.7
Under Review Special:
The Best Albums of 2003 p.30
Kickaround p.35
On the Dial p.36
Charts p.38
Datebook p.38
L &¥6t
Lori did the cover. Again!!
I tell you, man, that girl is
crazy. She looks you right in
the eye when she's talking
to you. I don't wanna get all
soppy, but I'm gonna miss her
bad. I think she should move
to London and get a kick-ass
design job, don't you? Then
I could hang out with her all
the time.
Editorial Assistant:
Karen Langhelle
Layout and Design:
Merek and Lori
People Who Helped:
Coffee and fags. Seriously that was it. Oh, and
maybe Staedtler Mars graphic pens and Graeme
Worthy wandered in and numbered all the pages
backwards,  j
People Who Didn't Help:
Those bastard double spacers out there! You know
who you are. What? One space after a period not
good enough for you, you greedy bastards? Main
offenders include: Kim (even though we love her
and she has a nice new haircut), Colin from The
Decemberists, Michelle Mae.
All those bands that don't have high res photos
easily downloadable from their websites. It's bloody
2003, people! Seriously, WTF? Are we meant to
chase you round with a pinhole camera waiting for
enough sunlight for a decent exposure? Jesus, step
into the present. It's nice here, you'd like it.
People who write us back in all caps. Push the
button off, ya lazy fucker.
Ben "Fucking" Lai; Jesus, man, as if it was bad
enough that you didn't let Gangbang win Shindig,
you gave us the most mindbendingly difficult ad to
open. The computer looked at it and said, "No."
and went berserk. Thanks a lot.
On the Dial:
Bryce Dunn
Charts:
Luke Meat
Datebook:
Merek and Lori
Distribution:
Matt Steffich
US Distro:
Frankie Rumbletone
Publisher:
Lydia Masemoia
© "DISCORDER" 2003 by the Student Radio Society of the University of British Columbia. All rights
reserved. Circulation 17,500. Subscriptions, payable in advance, to Canadian residents are $15 for one
year, to residents of the USA are $15 US; $24 CDN elsewhere. Single copies are $2
(to cover postage, of course). Please make cheques or money orders payable to DiSCORDER Magazine.
DEADLINES: Copy deadline for the Feburary issue is NEVER!!! Ad space is available until FOREVER!!!
and can be booked by calling Jay at 604.822:3017 ext. 3. Our rates are available upon request. DISCORDER Is not responsible for loss, damage, or any other injury to unsolicited manuscripts, unsolicited
artwork (including but not limited to drawings, photographs, and transparencies), or any other unsolicited
material. Material can be submitted on disc or in type. As always, English is preferred. Send email to DiSCORDER at dlscorder®club.ams.ubc.ca.
From UBC to Langley and Squamish to Bellingham, CITR can be heard at 101.9 fM as well as through
all major cable systems in the Lower Mainland, except Shaw in White Rock. Call the
CITR DJ line at 822.2487, our office at 822.3017 ext. 0, or our news and sports lines at 822.3017
ext. 2. Fax us at 822.9364. e-mail us at: citrmgremail.ams.ubc.ca. visit our web site at www.citr.ca or Just
pick up a goddamn pen and write #233-6138 SUB Blvd.. Vancouver. BC. V6T 1Z1. CANADA.
I'd like to say a big "fuck you" to allthe people who made my stay in Canada difficult. Y
you are. Or maybe you don't, which makes this even better. Ha ha.
printed in Canada
SON3R
66 WATER STREET
WWW.SONAR.BC.CA
m
Main Room: HousB-Techno-PrograsshK
Urban Lounge: HipHop-Breaks
VIVOFlRIDAYS
Presented by www.tigerstone.tv / www.PH1.ca ,
decSi BRAD C0PELAND «,
CANADA'S NEXT SUPERSTAR 0J - brarjcopelandxa
$3 in stares   w/ KYLE N0RDMAN, VINYL RfTCHIE
DEC^BADBOYBILLchicago
WORLDS MOST ELECTRIFYING HOUSE & TURNTABUSM Ri - bad tobixorr
$13ins?»res  w/ STEVE SMOOTH, CZECH
DEC.19
TAYLOR ta &dj lace
w/ KYLE N0RDMAN. THE POUND PROJECT h
DEcii XMAS CHARITY DRIVE
FREE ADMISSION w/ 2 CANNED ITEMS or 1 TOY. 8PM Magazine gwe
w/ CZECH 3 hr set, REV, Hipnotik Crew £ypst*ij
Jan 2 ATOMIC HOOLIGAN [uk) Hottest Breaks remixer of the year
Jan 9 KIMBALL COLLINS [us] American Trance lege •J'
& OTHERWISE.
DEC 6  Mark Grant - Chicago
(OM Records, Deepfunk)
DEC 13 Manali Artist Showcase
DJ Ali, Sean Dimitrie, Tim Fuller, Nav^
DEC 20 Tony Ezzy & the 100th Monk
/*<«ln/HM.«*2 5 a small introduction
Goodbye 20031 And a Lot of
Other Things Besides.
No doubt those of you "in the
know" have already heard the
sad news that come January
1. 2004. The (Sugar Refinery) will
close its doors forever. While this
may be sad news I am in no way
surprised that yet another great
feature of Vancouver will be
allowed to slip away. Nothing like
this surprises me anymore. It's not
that it's Vancouver and it's not
that that it's even Canada. The
whole world is the same. People
In general are lazy, selfish, small-
minded and are unwilling to get
off their arses and do anything
really great. For every "good person" doing great and important
things there are thousands of
people who are just willing to sit
there and let it slide. They don't
mind being spoon-fed the absolute crap that is dished out by the
mainstream media. They don't
care when the radio plays the
same song over and over again.
They just take it as read that people in high places know what's
best for them. And, perhaps most
worringry of all, most people are
simply unaware that doing something different is even an option.
This year in Vancouver has
been particularly bad. The year
began with the Colbalt having to
temporarily close its doors due
to a safety regulation that they
couldn't live up to. The Royal—
an excellent venue for Hve music
in my opinion—announced
that they wouldn't be holding
anymore shows because the
noise was too much for the
hostel's guests. And, of course.
The Blinding Light Cinema threw
in the towel after five years as
Vancouver's best forum for truly
alternative cinema and video
art. Vancouver—A No fun city?
Well, not really. There's plenty of
fun to be had and a lot of good
stuff is either being produced,
funded or hosted. It just that it
doesn't get any support. Great
places like The (Sugar Refinery)
get closed and no one does
anything about it. Regardless of
the reasons for its closing, you
people should be out on the
streets till it's allowed to reopen.
And to* those of you who
moan about Vancouver and
apathetically shrug your shoulders, you need really look no
further than this radio station,
and this magazine. Not only
is DiSCORDER free, it's one of
only two independent campus
radio station magazines in the
entire country. So that's one
for Vancouver, right there. The
problem is that no one bloody
appreciates    the    opportunity
that these two things present:
completely free access to both
print and radio media. Do you
moan about The Fox or XFM?
Okay,   then   come   down   to
CiTR and do something about
it. Can't find an interview with
your  favourite  local   band   in
any magazines? Come, down
to DiSCORDER and write one.
This month sees the departure of
both myself and the Art Director
Lori. We've done our bit and
no matter what you feel about
our tenure in charge—love it or
hate it—at least we actually did
something. Now more than ever
DiSCORDER needs people who
are willing to give their time for
free to highlight something that
they feel is important. That's jus}
how it is—you have to take the
iniiative. Otherwise magazines
like DiSCORDER will simply cease
to exist. And how's that for no
fun?
"It's the Most Wonderful Time of
the Year."
On a lighter fhote, I hope you
Fire on ihe[>?CO'!V*nco\AVer*sF'*est'(or whatever you have*?
calf than ajher 9-I j) assess/asf month's frz damage. 1
enjoy our Christmas
in fact highly ironic that on the
month that The (Sugar Refinery)
announces it's departure that
we choose to highlight the
Department of Safety on our
cover. An Anacqrtes-based
venue that the founding
members admit was, at least
in part, inspired by the now
doomed Vancouver venue. The
Department of Safety is a wonderful example of what happens
when people actually do get off
their arses and do something,
and you can read more about
its creation on page 20 and 21.
Also, in the spirit of Christmas and
New Yearhijinks, DiSCORDER sent
out its Christmas questionnaire
to the great and the good. And
despite the fact that nobody
seemed to know what "turduck-
en" was, I think it turned out pretty
well. Answers to this burning culinary question and details of what
Bill Callahan and Ben Gibbard .
want for Christmas can be found
on pages 22 through 29. Maybe
you could send them a card?
Peace on Earth and Goodwill to
All Men?—Apparently Not.
Pictured is the aftermath of what
happened when somebody
introduced a stack of last month's
DiSCORDER magazines to fire.
Thanks a bunch. I know I said
when I took over that I wanted
to make DiSCORDER a "smokin"'
magzine. But this is not what I
meant. Most of the magazine
got away unscathed, but unfortunately, all copies destined for
US distribution were lost. So, to all
our US readers, I can only apologise. Investigations into who perpetrated such a heinous act are
ongoing. Needless to say, if you
don't like the magazine, I would
prefer it if you just wrote a letter. •
M*zr*Jj&%. + ing. Elizabeth played third with a
dark, immersive and perfect art-
rock set. Their guitarist ended the
night at the Railway by smashing
up and destroying his guitar. Cool.
Winner Elizabeth
November 18: Semi Finals #2
The four skilled musicians that
comprise the band The Parlour
Steps were on stage first tonight.
Again we were fortunate enough
to witness their well-layered yet
dynamic instrumentais along with
their soft beautiful vocals. New
Years Resolution was on next.
They didn't have to use a borrowed keyboard this time around
VirxnCOW-V^S *nesf€rt$€*VlWe.of MC|*k COO/0«r and all the keyboard parts sounded much better. All that mixed in
with some nice guitar riffs and
awesome drum work created a
memorable set. Last to play was
They Shoot Horses, Oon't They?
They are about as entertaining
a band as you can get. Guitars
and drums ba-ked by horns and
cowbells anc keyboards. Yet
they are more than just a novelty act as their music is catchy
and intelligent at the same time.
Winner They Shoot Horses, Don't
They?
irApfrsonalCfS, BhqbetK
Ok, there is a lot to cover in this
issue and I only have so much
space   so   let's   get   started.
October 21
SHiNDiG is all about diversity this
year and this night was a perfect
example. Martial Law started off
the evening with some catchy
modern punk rock. The band's
front man was impressive with
his high energy performance,
jumping on and off the stage
and working the crowd. With a
bit more work I can envision this
band playing in huge arenas
someday. The hip hop act The
Front followed Martial Law. They
had the entire place dancing to
their music. The most remarkable
part of their set occurred when
the bassist was having trouble
with his gear and the MCs managed to freestyle rap about
the bassist breaking his amp
in perfect rhythm and rhyme.
The last band of the night was
Gangbang. What more can I
say about Gangbang that hasn't
been said already in DiSCORDER
or Terminal City? They were fun
to watch and had brilliant lyrics:
"I got robot arms. I got robot
legs. Oh fuck, I'm a robot".
Winner The Front
October 26
Coin Gutter, an ambient noise
duo, was the first act of the
night. Their    finely-crafted
atmospheric electronic set was
refreshingly new for the SHiNDiG
audience. The instrumental act
The Screaming Eagles appeared
on stage next dressed in full
Halloween gear.-Jhe clever banter between their memorable
pop rock tunes made them a
joy to watch. A pop punk outfit
from Victoria, We've Been Had,
rounded out the night. They
won over many in the crowd with
their assortment of short charming songs about everything from
haircuts to girls in rock bands.
Winner: The Screaming Eagles
November 4
First up on stage this night was
Flippin' Jiggers. These four very
talented musicians were tight
and played a diverse set that
ranges from pop to funk to folk
rock. Sarah Wheeler, the second act of the night, got some
help from her friends as she was
backed up by a full band. She
played a wonderful set full of gorgeous songs featuring her amazing voice. Last up was the band
Spark That Screams. They had the
most interesting mix of gear for
the night: their set up included a
cello, a keyboard, a sequencer/
sampler, two guitars and no drum
set. All the instruments were put
to good use and the audience
was rewarded with an ethereal
and yet beautiful performance.
Winner Spark That Screams
November 11: Semi Finals #1
The first semi-finals began with
Revisionist who brought their
abrasive math-rock styling back
for another round. The band
rocked even harder and louder
this time around despite having a
member hampered by sickness.
Next up was Fiction, four fellows
nice enough to fill in for the band
The First Day who lost their drummer to tendonitis and had to bow
out of the competition. Fiction
played wonderfully accessible
songs influenced by oldies pop
and '80s new wave. Go see these
guys once and you'll be humming their tunes the next mom-
November 25: Semi Finals #3
It's all about being bigger
and better this evening. The
Screaming Eagles played first
and they were even better
than the last time. Their set was
tighter and had a nicer flow. The
Front, who played second, got
an even bigger crowd dancing
to their music tonight. And lastly.
Spark That Screams performed
another great set, but the extra
emphasis they placed mixing in
the cello and keyboards made
them sound better than ever.
Winner The Front
So this hit. Elizabeth, They Shoot
Hones Don't They? and The
Front all competed In the finals
on December 2nd. Just turn the
page to find out who won/ •
THE HIGHBALLS    1
THEy SHOO! HORSES, DONT IHESf
BEN
SLAVECOMj
SHAKE APPEAL
TNE REVERBERATORS]
c£min T7&n\
BlUyiHEKMir
the sHinys.
CARRIED TO IVIUSIG^
cDQKa troan
THE DOERS.
SKATOMATICS fc
HUMAN HI-LITE REEL
cDQrea SOOTHE BAR1VETTES
cDQKD QEDaa THE REGIONAL HATS
RAIILW/Ay CLUB
579 MM SHEET • MMBIETIIIVE.COM ° (601) 878-6060
m« Pnr&surz do dr$fh€ir>Tooh. Rekkli$Hwl1s Books and Written media by Eat
On The Rag With Girly Mags
Thank god for the alternative
women's magazine. Or, as I like
to call it, the girly mag. If Cosmo
doesn't satiate your craving for
intelligent, female-oriented writing, the girly mag is your new best
friend. Look for a queer-friendly
magazine with an emphasis on
feminism and cutting-edge pop
culture, often with huge full-
page ads for sex toy companies.
This hitherto unnamed genre is
gaining momentum: Every time
l enter a bookstore there seems
to be more of them. Here's the
Textually Active guide to what's
on the market right now.
Bust (Issue 25)
I first discovered girly mags back
in high school, when I found
a torn-up copy of Bust, hidden
behind the Gay and Lesbian
section, just under the tattoo
magazines, in the Kelowna
Chapters. It was shocking to find
myself identifying with a female-
oriented magazine when all I
had been offered before was
Seventeen or Cosmo. It's the
only magazine I buy regularly.
A spunky, colourful format perfectly highlights the contents,
a mixture of DIY crafts, pop culture, music, travel and feminism.
Bust's strength has always been,
the way it chops pop culture into
tasty, mouth-size bites—check
out this month's "Top 25 Dark
Ladies of All Time" if you don't
believe me. A good issue will
leave you intrigued and wanting more. It's not as good as
it used to be; financial troubles
and the departure of editor
Marcelle Karp have brought
down the quality of the longer
pieces, and the writing doesn't
feel as astoundingly new as it
used to. But it's still the best girly
mag on the market. After all, it
taught me how to knit my own
legwarmers.
Bitch (Issue 22)
Less engaging but more meaty
than Bust, Bitch makes a perfect
companion to my old favourite.
Weighing in at a hefty 59 pages,
this "feminist response to pop
culture" (mainly books, movies and TV) is perfect for those
days when you feel like a longer,
more substantial article. This
fall's "Family" issue is dbsorbing
and far from cozy, raising such
issues as the mainstreaming of
the queer family and the treatment of domestic violence in
film. The columns section keeps
things lighter with a quiz ("Which
Coppola are you?") and Andi
Zeisler's oddly hilarious musings
on what would happen if the
Golden Girls met the,gang from
Sex and the City. The only thlna,
that ever really turned me off
Bitch was its t#xt-heavy layout
duiO-xJj^x.     6
and monochromatic colour
scheme. Once you get past
that, you've got hours of good
feminist fun in your hands.
Fierce (Issue 2)
The success of Bust and Bitch has
inspired a second generation of
similar publications. When I wander into my local magazine store,
I'm now confronted by an entire
shelf of alternative women's
magazines. (While this is a good
thing, I'm a bit worried about
market glut.) Fierce is just one of
these new feminist glossies. It's
good looking—full colour, with
lots of pictures and a creative
have the unfortunate habit of retreading some fairly established
feminist ground (yes, I know
that fat is a feminist issue) and
its format is very plain, in glossy
black and white only. But the
writing is generally good, and,
perhaps more importantly, it's
the only Canadian girly mag I've
ever found. The current issues
discusses the media's misconstructions of Vancouver's missing
women, reviews albums by local
artists such as Perpetual Dream
Theory and Tegan and Sara, and
interviews Canadian fat-activist
Allyson Mitchell.
A-..errr...ta&te$ul promotional posfcarc/
ior BusSr Magazine. Keah, ct<&sy.
layout. Once I looked beyond
the cool fonts and giant photos,
however, I found myself getting
pretty bored. Fierce seems more
concerned with telling you how
fierce you are than with providing well-conceived articles.
Someone should explain to these
people that an article should go
somewhere.
Good Girl (Issue 4)
She's a little sparse, and a little
too brand new, but I'm sure that
Good Girl is going to get better. For one thing, this is only
the fourth issue. For another, the
first issue contained a sweetly
devoted spotlight on Bust magazine and its financial troubles.
And if they stick to Bust as a role
model, I don't think they can do
much wrong. Good Girl does
Venus (Issue 17)
Venus is primarily focused on
music, but it's got just enough
space devoted to fashion, hipster crafts and girly pop culture to
deserve mention here. Plus, as a
music magazine, it totally rocks.
It unfailingly covers artists and
bands that interest me, some of
which rarely get covered, and it
exposes me to new ones that I'm
sure to like. If I'm feeling broke, I
avoid reading Venus, because I
know it will make me want to buy
at least three new CDs. The website js also cool: It's an expanded
version of the zine. If it had more
crafts and more random pop
culture, it might possibly usurp
Bust as my all-time favourite. •
Next monfh: reviews of actual
books/1 promise!
Before we launch into this
month's tribute to waxy wonderment, a tip of the hat and
a kick in the pants go out to
our outgoing (literally) editor,
Merek, for withstanding months
of my good-natured taunting
over his taste in music and the
apparent absence of good
food in Canada. His dedication
to bringing DiSCORDER to your
door each month will be missed,
but as I'm sure you've already
asked yourself before I even
began this, "Who the hell is this
' Merek guy anyway, I thought
a group of highly trained
monkeys ran the magazine?"
Well, that's a question better
left for our editor-in-waiting.
Be afraid, be very, very afraid.
Onwards and upwards, as
they say, our first entry in the
vinyl sweepstakes comes from
our own poolside, and a group
known as the Banzai Rebels.
Guitarist Mark Brodie has been
swingin' in the surf scene for
a number of years in various
combos, so it comes as no surprise that his latest outfit carries
the tradition of raunchy reverb,
bouncy bottom end and driving
drums on the tracks "Surf Panic!"
and "Curse Of The Red Baron."
Perfect party music brought
to you by the purveyors of the
West Coast "Pep" Sound. (R.I.P.
Records, no address given.)
Across that pool we call the
Atlantic Ocean we go to jolly
ol' England for Sergeant's Mess,
a group that our Brit-detector
(that's Merek, everyone) may
recognize as members of the
Buff Medways, and of course
along for the ride is Sir Billy
Childish (someone should really
take care of bestowing this honour to him right fucking now), as
new vinyl
by bryce dunn
he is a card-carrying member
of the B.M.F.A., but I digress.
"Pussy Galore" starts this four
song affair on an instrumental
bend, sounding reminiscent of
a long lost Milkshakes tune,
and "When You Were Mine" is
a nice garage pop number.
It's the other songs "Lotion"
and "Go My Way" that demonstrate a more skewed vision
of the garage formula, possibly due to the overseer Mr
Childish having some sway in
the final mix. Nonetheless, a
formidable debut. (SmartGuy
Records, 3288 21st PMB #32
San Francisco, CA. USA 94110)
Last on our list is The
Charming Snakes from Seattle,
who find themselves without
a drummer on their two-song
single "See You In The Alps" b/w
"James." Not by choice do the
charming ones find themselves
in this predicament because
they cannot find the suitable
backbeat for their stripped-
down two-guitar groove. "Mr
Rythym," as he's credited,
does an admirable job—don't
get me wrong—but methinks a
little more creativity in the drum
department would make these
tracks stand out even more.
If you're into new wave-influenced rock and roll and don't
mind the road trip for practices,
contact Pirate Craft Records
or www.charmingsnakes.com.
On second thought, I'm
not totally sure they need
someone, but give it the
ol'  college  try if you   like...
Well, see you in February,
when we' II be baking up a whole
new batch of vinyl goodies! • peri'ormance/art/l'iim
by penelope mulligan
The Plughole
Ronnie Burkett Theatre of
Marionettes
Provenance
runs December 4-21
Vancouver East Cultural Centre
When I was little, my grandmother had an antique device called
a Viewmaster. You held it up to
your eyes like binoculars, pushed
a lever and viewed transparencies on a rotating disc. Her disc
collection went back quite far
and included classic fairytales,
tours of Disneyland and even the
coronation of Queen Elizabeth
II. I'd spend hours with the thing
plastered to my face, longing to
crawl into the almost-3D scenes,
legs pumping involuntarily. It
wasn't always what I was seeing
that drew me; rather a way of
seeing—a whole world surrounded by a blackness that engulfed
everything but my hungry eyes. I
later figured out that the reason
house lights went down in the
theatre was to similarly capture
an audience. But that seldom
happened without a particular
visual aesthetic, and I swear
that my penchant for everythfng
from puppet shows to certain
European animators and German
expressionist film was kick-started
by Grannie Mulligan's gizmo.
Puppets, of course, have
been big news again for quite
sometime, but the sheer amount
of technique and craft required
to pull off even the simplest of
puppetry—especially live—acts
as a magnificent filter for the
bandwagon jumpers who populate other revivals in the arts.
And Ronnie Burkett, Canadian
master of marionettes, wizard
of all things puppet, has heft to
spare. His bio matter-of-factly
states that he became interested
in puppetry at age seven and
by fourteen, was touring his own
productions. The Village Voice
hails him as "one of the geniuses
of the world" and after seeing
but one of his shows, I can assure
you that the man more than lives
up to that kind of namecalling.
In 200l's Tinka's New Dress.
he brought to life an entire cast
of marionettes, physically and
vocally, in a way that seemed
impossible for only four limbs,
ten fingers and one set of vocal
chords. Often visible, he orchestrated the action like an elegant
carney while subtly rifting on the
relationship between himself and
his creations. I wanted to tumble
through the dark to comfort
and kibbitz with them. It was the
Viewmaster experience again—
with political bite, emotional
frottage and a parental advisory.
Provenance, Burkett's latest
show, is bound to be every bit as
wondrous. Imagine the story of
a young art history student who
chases down a mysterious painting to a brothel in Vienna. Naive,
a tad frumpy and obsessed with
the painting's subject (a beautiful
young boy), she eventually learns
more about beauty and humanity's pursuit of it than her studies
could ever have taught her. Now
imagine it told with puppets—all
of them exquisitely nuanced in
voice and gesture. Through them,
Burkett hosts scathingly witty discussions about 20th century art,
and revisits history's horrors in the
characters' backstories. His creatures will navigate meaty terrain
while charming the pants off you.
This season, treat yourself to
Provenance—and if you can
spring for it, take a friend. •
Pisaster sfrvcfc' Vaneower's version o5 The.
Bachelor when itw<t$reveakdihevth»iit\g con-
festa'trwes QCfowW/ iHadeoutofwood.
©UiNdis
CONGRATULATIONS TO
THE FRONT
SHINDIG 2003 WINNERS!
THANKS ALSO TO THE RAILWAY CLUB,
ALL THE PARTICIPATING BANDS,
SPONSORS, JUDGES, ORGANIZERS,
GUESTS AND OUR BEAUTIFUL
MC, BEN LAI
SEEYOUIN2004!!!
http://shindig.citr.ca
MsRodc
Black Dog
Video ,
REC-ACE^
RECORDERS
HtWIUN*
I
BEAT STREET
RECORDS
Fireball Productions
»K»>WHESB I PIE PILOTS p
99
'• •      •-•':•   ©
Vasoiine
Down
Wicked Garden
Big Empty   p|ush
Big Bang Baby
Creep
Lady Picture Show
Trippin' On A Hole
In A Paper Heart
Interstate Love Song
AH In The Suit That You
Wear (New Single!)
Sex Type Thing
Days Of The Week
Sour Girl
Plush (acoustic)
-$f#Nl TEMPLE MfcbTl 'SMmd^M
»w
►►FUTURE SHOP ~^^£mmf^^'^^\te: K
SEXUALITY AND INTERACTION
The members of Fuck Me USA don't give a shit about political messages,
they just want you to dance.
II
w
By Kimberley Day
Photo by Hana MacDonald
This past year has been a good one for the members of Fuck Me
USA. After replacing their old drummer, changing cities and listening
to a lot of T-Rex, they've started to make themselves very well known
in the Vancouver scene. Using a name taken from the 1991 Gang of
Four song entitled "F.M.U.S.A.", the band claims to be making music
that people can get into, rather than just creating a musical attack
in the form of a wall of noise.
In the band's biography, written by guitar and synth-player
Jay Watts, Fuck Me USA are described as "casting off the imposed
rigidity and listlessness of a scene dominated by sexless math-rock
and the impotent swagger of flaccid cock-rock in favour of organic,  :
well-structured disco punk...." When asked to describe "sexless math
rock," the band's vocalist, Kayla Guthrie, immediately gives the
answer of "Matlock Records Back Records," to which drummer Brad
MacKinnon adds "Fuck you, Nick Frenette."
The band then goes on to name several bands, including
Weights and Measures, North of America, Holding Pattern and
Rockets Red Glare. MacKinnon explains: "Being in Victoria, there
was such a small amount of bands playing shows that were halfway
interesting. We just grew sick of that after a while." Watts offers a
more general description: "The big idea for that is that it's not so
much that people who make math rock are evil, it's just that there's
a certain inaccessibility that they take pride in. Like prog musicians,
where it's overly abstract noodHng, and it gets really boring if you're
not a musician. You read interviews with Rockets Red Glare or any
of those bands, and it's not that I have anything against them
personally, but they say 'We make musicians for musicians' and it's
a little alienating. I don't think that you necessarily have to dumb
down your music to make it accessible, interesting, somewhat pop-
structured."
As for the "flaccid cock-rock," the band at first hesitates, but
names such Vancouver bands as Flash Bastard and Crystal Pistol.
Watts explaines that "You don't want to hold everybody to your
standards, but it's just music that doesn't interest us and seems to get
a lot of attention. It's something that we don't want to be a part of
yet because we're young people making music in an independent
scene. It's a parody of what went on 20-30 years ago when bands
that were doing it were doing something that was interesting, people
were watching stuff like Iggy Pop." Bassist Dan Colussi describes
"flaccid cock-rock" as "shitty glam rock," epitomized by the Black
Halos. "The aesthetic disgusts us, like tattoos and shoving your cock
in someone's face who really doesn't want to see it. Do you want
to see Billy Hopeless going 'RAARRAAAAAR' and shoving his cock in
your face? NO!"
When asked to elaborate on what separates Fuck Me USA from
the "sexless math rock" and "flaccid cock-rock," Collusi explains,
"We are part of a more traditional pop struc ure. Glam rock is overly
simplistic and math rock is overly technical, and we're a healthy
medium." MacKinnon jokingly adds, "Lest we forget the political-and
social commentary that goes along with the name Fuck Me USA,"
which immediately sparks the response: "Which is complete fucking
bullshit as a lyricist" from Guthrie. She continues to say "Please end
this political punk bullshit that people keep copying and pasting as
their bios for local newspapers."
The band then goes on to claim they're adding what MacKinnon
calls a "sexy swagger" to their music. Says Watts, "Sexuality is a
hard word, especially when you've got a female front person. You
don't want to seem like you're pushing it, but that's why we add
the adjective 'flaccid' before cock rock, because it's so much
empty posturing and nothing that really has anything to do with true
sexuality anyways." Fuck Me USA, on the other hand, is "fully un-
flaccid; erect/' according to MacKinnon.
In the past nine months, Fuck Me USA has gone from what
Guthrie describes as sounding like "old Hot Hot Heat" and what
MacKinnon describes as "ripping off the Rapture" to defining an
original sound. The band, since moving most of its members from
Victoria to Vancouver, has been signed by Global Symphonic, home
to such bands as Frog Eyes and Jerk with a Bomb. They are still a bit
baffled as to how they were picked up by the label. "We don't know
why we're on Global Symphonic, because it's a venerable label,
it's got good artists, and for some reason they allowed us onto the
roster...but we're growing all the time so we're going to uphold the
tradition," thinks Collusi.
In 2004, they will be releasing their first album, an EP that will be
mixed and mastered by Hot Hot Heat's Steve Bays. They will also soon
be releasing a 7" split with Channels 3+4, and touring the West Coast
with the Unicorns in February. They've even staked out a rival band,
"as yet unnamed," offers Colussi. "Their days are numbered because
they've been ripping off Interpol and Radiohead for far too long." In
summary, the members of Fuck Me USA are putting out music that
they enjoy, and as for being erect, you don't know the true meaning
of potency until you've seen them play live. •
Best local band of the year (Vancouver / Victoria):
Chet, Frog Eyes, Jerk With a Bomb, Radio Berlin, The Organ, Channels
Best local album:
Radio Berlin Glass, Frog Eyes The Golden River.
Best album of 2003:
Soul Jazz Compilation, Manitoba Up In Flames, Chromatics Chrome
Rats vs. Basement Ruts.
Best band of 2003:
T-Rex, Shoplifting.
Worst band (local or otherwise):
The Stills.
Best Show on CiTR 101.9 fM:
Third Time's the Charm.
Best solo artist of 2003:
Ryan Adams, but not really.
Best record store:
Ditch in Victoria, in all of Canada. Fantastic clientele, fantastic owner.
What will you remember most about 2003?
Making Fuck Me USA good. Walking around East Hastings. Being
ridiculous idiots.
What did you like best about DiSCORDER in 2003?
Lori, her art is fucking amazing; Merek Cooper; The Zeus article.
What did you like least about DiSCORDER in 2003?
As far as Canadian publications go, it's totally good. •
*<ec* /
Nardwuar Who are you?
Caleb Followill: Kings of Leon,
And who's in Kings of Leon?
Caleb: Erm, I'm in the Kings of Leon. I'm Caleb. I'm the singer and
rhythm guitar player and here's my little brother Jared. [Points to
Jared] He's the bass player. And our older brother Nathan is the drum
player and our first cousin Matthew is the lead guitar player.
And also a very important member is Nachol What about Nacho?
Caleb: Nacho yeah...he's there [on the stage].
Where's Nacho? Is Nacho down there [Points to stage]?
Caleb: He's the stage manager, yeah.
What is Nacho? What's the deal on Nacho?
Caleb: He's our cousin who...he plays guitar with us a little bit and   -
he's like our stage manager. He's just a good friend.
People think he's in the band, don't they?
Caleb: Yeah.
Jared Followill: Yeah
Caleb: Yeah, he's been my best friend since we were little kids. And,
err, we had the band together and he was living in Oklahoma and so
we knew we hod to get him a job. And so we gave him a job and
we all... us four in the band and Nacho all live together in a house in
Tennessee. So we're pretty close...
He does a lot. Nachol Like, he saves the day, doesn't he?
Jared: Sure he does. I mean, we consider him to be the fifth King.
Caleb: [Laughs]
Jared: He's like...he's awesome.
So you guys are here in Vancouver, British Columbia...
Caleb: Canada?
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. And you guys love The Band,
don't you?
Caleb: Yeah, totally man. They're like, one of my biggest influences.
Because there's a Canadian connection! Because you know The
Band started in Canada with Rockin' Ronnie...?
Caleb: Pardon?
Rockin' Ronnie Hawkins!!
Caleb: Oh sorry. I didn't hear what you said. Yeah, we love 'em. I
mean. Rick Danko was one of my favourite bass players, but he's also
one of my favourite vocalists. Levon (Helm] is amazing and Robbie
[Robertson] .is amazing, all of them...everyone.
Have you met any of The Band? What are your demands? Now, you're
Kings of Leon, I mean Bryan Adams comes to your shows, doesn't he?
Caleb: [Laughs] Yeah. We haven't met them actually. We recorded
our record at their studio that they built called Shangri-La, in Mafibu,
Cafifomia. But that's about it, that's the closest we've gotten to The
Band.
Is that where they did [singing] "Up on Cripple Creek"?
Caleb: [Laughs] I believe so. Maybe I don't know. You'll have to ask
them. I didn't never hear that version.
I guess what I was wondering, though, was who can you get to meet
• you now? Now that you're the Kings of Leon!! Is it gonna be hard to
meet The Band to do like a super Jam?
Caleb: Yeah, probably. Actually one person we wanted to meet was
Johnny Cash. We were on our way to California and the band that's
opening for us. Jet, I believe their producer was playing on his record,
and so we were on our way to get to meet Johnny Cash. Not any
more but...we would have loved to do that. But, yeah, any member
from The Band would be great.
A lot ot people look at you guys, I mean, what do people compare
you to?
Jared: A lot of stupid shit.
Caleb: Well, they compare us to everything from Lynyrd Skynyrd to
gay men who live in the same house together wearing moustaches.
[Laughs] So I mean whatever.
Now what is fhe problem with moustaches?
Caleb: I don't know. I think they're just underrated. I think porno really
brought 'em down a little bit. Porno kinda killed the moustache, but
actually we're very inspired by porno so....
The 70s porno-look is what your're kinda sporting now?
Caleb: Err, we like the '60s a little more than the '70s but I would say
the length of our hair maybe people would say is a little '70s.
I read somewhere that you guys don't want people with mustaches
coming to your shows?
Caleb: Erm.... ~,*=.-~iv >J
You said you would rather shave your head than let that happen.
Jared: I think that was Caleb.
Caleb: Yeah, well it was just the thing...you know?
I'm mean like, why are you allowed a mustache and not me?!l
Caleb: No, that's great. We just...the way that we are, we've kinda
always done the opposite of what everyone wants and what
everyone thinks. That's why we grew facial hair because people at
our record label told us we were handsome and so we all just started
growing facial hair to make them mad.
So people better watch out—the hair could come off pretty quick
then?
Jared: Yeah, I just think that what he meant by that is that we try to be
different from everyone else. We don't like to look like everybody else,
so that's why we look the way we do. So, if everybody started to look
like us we would look different.
And you guys are The Kings of...?
Both: Leeeeoooon.
So, Kings of Leon, I was just mentioning to you, that you guys kinda get
compared to other bands like...?
Caleb: Erm, everything from Lynyrd Skynyrd meets The Strokes to
Creedence Clearwater Revival. I mean, some people are cool with
it. Some people have cooler comparisons than those. And they'll say
like, "The Rolling Stones or like, The Velvet Underground."
I wanna say Andy Griffith! That's what you guys should be compared
to, right?
Caleb: Sure, why not man, Maf/ockl
Isn't he from your area? Andy Griffith? Andy Griffith and Johnny Cash?
Jared: Yeah.
Caleb: Yeah. Andy Griffith is from Tennessee. And actually I loved the
Andy Griffith Show so....
[Nardwuar attempts to hum the Andy Griffith Show theme]" De de
^«*«n»^ Andy Griffith theme?
Caleb: Der Dum Dum Dert."
"Der Dum Det..."
Jared: [To Caleb] I love this guy!
The Andy GrffBfh theme! Do you guys know ihe
Jared: Yeah sure, definitely.
How old are you by the way, Jared?
Jared: 17 years old.
Can you sing fhe Andy Griffith theme for us?
Jared: Yeah...oh I can't sing it. I can whistle it.
Can you hum it? "Der Dum Dert?"
[Jared then proceeds to whistle a very tuneful version of the Andy
Griffith theme] xv&**
Sotakethatill
Jared: Nacho joined in.
Alright! I knew Nacho was useful for something.
Jared: Hey Nachol Look...
There's Nacho. Nach-OI Because the key to The Kings of Leon is
understanding Andy Griffith. It all goes back to Andy Griffith. So how
did you end up on BMG? How did you end up on BMG? What caused
allthat?
Caleb: Erm, we had been making some demos with songs and there
was kind of a buzz going on. I guess our management, like, sent some
things out to people. And we ended up going to New York.
Now, how did you get that management? I've always wondered, like,
how do you get to that stage, to actually get management? To, you
know, bring you to New York?
Caleb: Yeah, I don't know. It really started with a lawyer for us. I
mean-
How did you meet a lawyer?!! How did you meet a lawyer?!!
Caleb: Just writing songs.
Jared: We met a guy named Trey Bowyer. I mean, it's, like, being in
the right place at the right time. We went to some, like err, club one
night, some country club and this guy who played the guitar, we
talked to him and he was a friend of ours and he played guitar and
lived off it. And he introduced us to our lawyer. Our lawyer introduced
us to our manager. Our manager introduced us to our A&R guy at
RCA, and it's just, like...err, it starts that way.
So it all goes back to a country club then?
Caleb: Yeah, it does. Blue Bird Cafe. We weren't even playing there.
We were just in there checking it out and we met a guy and we
ended up going to his house and just playing, you know, a couple of
songs for him and he introduced us to a guy.
Props to the Bluebird Cafe then?
Jared: Yeah, cheers.
it's pretty amazing, you guys get to go to New York. You get to record
with the Rolling Stones' old instruments and stuff—fhey weren't given
to you of course, I realize that.
Caleb: Yeah, I know.
But before you were living in cars. You were living in cars!
Caleb: Yeah, I mean, well, everything that we owned was in the
back of our car pretty much. We had this big...well, we called it like
a...what did we call it?
Jared: A hooptie.
Caleb: A hooptie, yeah. [Laughs] It was this....
That was the Sir Mix-A-lot thing. "My Hooptie!" You're down with Andy
Griffith and Sir Mix-A-lot!
Both: [Laughs]
Can you sing any Sir Mix-A-lot at ad?
Jared: Err, no...l don't think so.
So you were in the hooptie, and I was wondering, what have you
learned about sleeping in cars? What are the tips to the kids out there
about sleeping in a car?
Caleb: Don't sleep on the floorboard because even though you can
get comfortable, when you're sleepy you'll wake up and with that
lump in your back, it's not good. You'll wake up with boobs so«..
Jared: The thing is, Pke, don't try and get in the most comfortable
position first. Like, if you fall asleep like that [illustrates a comfortable
position], then you're pretty much screwed from there on out,
because that was the pinnacle of comfort. So you need to just start
out with, like, you know, the straightforward lay down. And then when
you wake up and you have something really comfortable to fall back
on. Then you're golden.
Now, do you think when you guys get really, realty, really huge you're
gonna maybe keep sleeping in the cars? You know, have a car on
tour Just to sleep in to keep it real?
Caleb: Maybe
Jared: Occasionally.
Like on the rider? Have a car on the rider so you can sleep in it?
Caleb: Yeah, not every night. But when our heads start getting too big
we'll kick a member into the car.
Kings of Leon, your dad—your dad!!—was a minister?)
Jared: Yeah.
What kind of things did you witness? Was he speaking in tongues and
stuff like that?
Caleb: Erm, yeah, yeah.
Can you speak in tongues at all?
Caleb: Not right now, no. Not for years, it's...yeah, it's been like five
or six years since we've been involved, or my dad's been involved
in that church, you know? But, yeah, that's the kind of churches we
grew up on.
Now, what kinda things did you witness? And what were you doing?
Did you witness any healing or anything? Like, what is the wildest thing
you've seen? ilfetStSh
Jared: Yeah, I mean we witnessed a lot of crazy things, but we just
don't really talk about it any more. But sure, we saw everything.
So were you the band playing on stage when people got healed?
Jared: No, they (the press] kinda misconstrued that. We never really
played in the church with our dad. Nathan played the drums in
church, but that was really it.
Did you ever think there would be a band like The Polyphonic Spree?
Wearing robes on stage, doing that sorta stuff?
Caleb: No, I mean, I had hoped that there would be like a great choir
one day, but they're kinda... they're not really ike a choir, are they?
I've never really seen them play ive.
Kings of Leon, Just winding up here, did you get involved in snake
handling or spells at all In the church?
Caleb: No. That's craziness. That's...that wasn't the kinda thing ...
that's like the retarded people. But it was similar religion. We just
weren't that religion where we would do the snake handling. But we
would do the healing and all that stuff.
You guys are the Kings of Leon. I understood that you took Ben Kweller
to your family reunion?
Jared: Yeah, definately, man, it's great. We always have family
reunions once a year. It's Labour Day in May and...we go up in the
mountains of Oklahoma and we pretty much fish and get crawdads. I
mean it's just like....
How did Ben Kweller fit in at the Kings of Leon family reunion?
Caleb: Oh, we were scared at first, you know? We didn't know if he
could hack it. But actually he was right there, ike he was up at seven
o'clock every morning trying to get us to fish and he was drinking
beer by 12. So we were like, "Man, he's in." So now, we ...I think for his
wedding present...err...we gave him our cabin. So we're gonna have
to build a new one next year so....
That's totally nice of you guys.
Jarad: Yeah, well he's ike our best friend so....
Continues on next page... /
So can I come to your family reunion next time, or would I get my ass
kicked?
Caleb: You'd probably get your ass kicked, but actually there's like a
fist, like, this long [demonstrates the length] of people frying to get on
the family reunion. So, em we might just go down there like a week
before and have like a band reunion, where it's just the band.
Speaking of getting your ass kicked: I saw an Interview with you guys
where you said that people were, like, giggling at your hair and stuff?
Caleb: Yeah, a lot.
Now, why would anybody giggle at you hair because looking at you
guys it looks like you guys could kick my ass. You have fhe look of
"kicking ass." Why would anybody dare giggle at you? Don't people
have respect?
Caleb: I don't know, maybe, yeah. Some people do but I think the
reason, you know, is because we're different. We were looking on the
internet and there was some magazine that had the 40 worst hairdos
of band history. And the Kings of Leon were one through four [laughs].
And we, ike, beat Flock of Seagulls and everyone so....
I love the Flock of Seagulls and the thing about you guys Is fhe way
you dress never went out of style, did R? Uke it never went out of style
where you're from INardwuar adopts a gruff voice]...Tipton County?
Caleb: No, not there, no.
What's Tipton County like?
Caleb: Moustaches, lots of moustaches, pretty much.
tCta c en <Ajl\   fi ;'JjJi£\i
Illustration By: Steve Collins
I mean you're looking the same as people have looked for years,
right? So how DARE people say you are retro?! You ain't retro you're
yourselves. You're The Kings of Leon!
Jared: We're fucking normal.
Caleb: For Tipton County. [Laughs]
And now you guys are mad aren't you? You're ready to name names!
Spin Magazine. What's the deal with Spin Magazine? You don't like
those guys now do ya?
Jared: No way. I mean ike, it's just a bunch of bullshit. They reviewed
our record with the Drive By Truckers and we don't...I mean...we
don't like having beef with other bands, but we just never, I mean
I've seen them ike one time on TV and it was ridiculous. It was like
horrendous and they gave us ike, I don't know, like two points and
them ike, five or somethig like that....
Caleb: No, it's not...we don't wanna talk about bands or anything-Ik6:
that....
I think it's great that you wanna name names though!
Caleb: No, no we don't.
I mean you're using your website to name names. That's great!
Caleb: I can't believe you know the name, actually. It's more about
the thing that they to us are very much a Southern Rock band,
and they're going for that. We're not going for, you know, to be
a Southern Rock band. We're just trying to be a band and have
different influences from all kinds of genres of music and the thing
is the review was saying...they gave us a bad review because we
weren't Southern Rock, you know? We were kinda happy with 1hat,
but they just don't get it.   -
Jared: We're not trying to be Southern Rock. I mean, we play rock
and roll and we're from the South but...
You're Andy Griffith rock)!
Jared: Yeah, exactly.
[Nardwuar tries to Sing the Andy Griffith song again] "Duh Duh Doo...
?"
Jared: I'm not gonna sing that again.
Ahh. "Duh Duh Doo?"
Jared: "Doo Doo Doo Dert."
Kings of Leon, now lastly here. Kings of Leon. Anything else you wanna
add to the people out there at all?
Jared: We love Canada and thanks to everybody. We've only played
one show here and it's completely sold out. And tonight is our second
show in Canada and it's completely sold out. Canada's been really
good to us, so hopefully the guys will keep coming out, and the girls
too.
Where are the girls the best? In Tipton County?
Jared: Erm, there's London. Sweden has INCREDIBLE girts. Erm...Athens,,
Georgia....
This is incredible that Jared is scrying this, isn't it?
Caleb: I don't know. It's pretty true.
I mean—from sleeping in a car to Sweden) I mean this is really
amazing, isn't ft?ll
Caleb: Yeah, that's pretty incredible.
AU because of the Bluebird Cafe?
Caleb: Err...I guess so...I don't know, maybe.
Jared: It's insane! '
What do you guys think of guns, lastly here.
Caleb: We don't own a gun actually.
Because you talk about Molly's Chambers?
Caleb: That's not about a gun. It's about her...err...chambers.
Hoi Hoi Molly's Chamber's! Marilyn's Chamber's)
Jared: Yeah err...I don't know. We recently watched Bowling for
Columbine and there's a lot of interesting points.
Caleb: Yeah, but I'm 'not for guns. I'm not against guns. I don't really
give a damn.
On your next album you'll address that. Because right now you've got
your new album to pimp, which I must say Craig Kilbom dissed on The
Craig Kilbom Show, didn't he?
Caleb: Realty?
Jared: I don't know, I didn't watch it.
But you guys played on it?
Jared: Yeah, I know we played on it but we didn't get to see it.
Because he did the Intro to you guys and he showed the record and
he was like, "Nice Cover!" Because you know your record comes with
that interesting cover and tt almost looks white, right? He kinda dissed
your record cover and then introduced you guysli
Jared: He was just trying to copy off David Letterman. He's trying to
be something. He's nothing. Actually, I think the reason he did that
was because we were supposed to play "Molly's Chambers" on the
show and we pissed everyone off by playing "Spiral Staircase." So...
and we recorded at a different day—we didn't even see him. And
they record the music first, so I'm sure they told him that we did that so
he tried to be funny, but he's not funny.
Ahh, that's awesome. Thank you. SHckin' It to 'em! The Kings of...?
Jared: LEE—ON!
Weil, thanks very much Kings of Leon. Keep on rockin' in the free
world and doot doola doot doo....
Jared: Doot Doo. •
Listen to the Nardwuar the Human Serviette Show every Friday
Afternoon 3:30pm-S:00pm on CiTR fM 101.9. Plus, check out www.
nardwuar.com. your guide the world of Nardwuar. Boys in da corners: talking local hip hop.
Interview and photos by Jenn Wong
In a city teeming with a strange mix of talented new artists and boring
come-and-go suburban underground "rap stars," it's hard to figure
out what's real and what's not. Lucky for us, though, that deep as shit
pool we call hip hop is spiling over lately with creative juices and one
of Vancouver's finest, producer, DJ and all around whiz kid Matt Perry,
better known as Kutcomers, is here to make waves, alongside his
merry cohorts who "just really want to make music."
Perry, a 22-year-old import from Auckland, New Zealand,
dropped down from the sky and into Canada a mere three years ago
with an MPC2000XL and a shit load of dusty records. After spending
time in Halifax and Montreal, he packed his bags and settled down
to the west coast, meeting and politicking and quickly gaining a
reputation in the city as a much sought-after DJ, picking up club
nights and a partner in crime, MC Ilia Brown, while still finding time to
make beats in his basement. Eventually, he met up with Kallon John
(an MC by the name of Grafhik) at a local show and slipped him a
mix of homemade beats serious enough to make Grafhik look twice.
Phone calls were made and a grassroots production began to form.
This month, the newly launched Ephin Productions
(www.ephin.com) is dropping a fresh hot off the press compilation
album, appropriately named Re-birth of the Realness/Bu'ild with tracks
from some of Vancouver's finest talents, with a crazy line-up featuring
the lyrical ikes of Ink Operated, Birdapres, Moves, JayKin and the
Usual Suspects along with the production and turntable skills of
Kutcorners, Grafhik, Wunderkut and Guha. Recorded at Greenhouse
Studios here in Vancouver, the compilation came together in just
under a month, and the 12", a hot-and spicy mix produced by
Kutcorners and held down by local MC's JayKin and Grafhic, will drop
at Atlantis Nightclub on December 10, alongside the Build CD and
Ephin clothing line.
I had a chance this week to sit down and talk to Jaykin (real
name Jaaykan Weekes) and Kutcorners at Beafstreet Records about
the state of hip hop in this neck of the woods, hometown support,
their upcoming release and everything else. Not surprisingly, they had
a lot to say, especially regarding the city's hip hop scene and the
way things or© taking off. JayKin, who started out writing rhymes in
secret and later dropping lyrics as a surprise to his friends and family
(his cousin Grafhik also rhymes on the 12") says guys ike Raekwon,
Nas and Jay-Z and so on are the ones he looks up to, guys who, on
their past records, "had that hunger for hip hop that you just don't
see anymore." Later on, he says, "You look at the growth of the local
hip-hop scene even in this past year alone—people are really starting
to realize that we've got a lot of things going down in this part of
Canada. Guests come from out of town and they go to the shows
and are amazed at what they see. Guys like The Swollen Members,
The Rascalz, Checkmate, that's what people automatically think of
when they think of Canadian West Coast hip hop. But these days
it's a new school of guys, talented MCs, producers, DJ's that are
really serious about what they're doing, pushing the barriers and
upping the standards of what's hype, trying to get away from the
cliche suburban underground backpacker stuff and back into the
o|d-school mentality of flavour and soul." Kutcomers adds, saying,
"There's something so great about the way this compilation just came
together. It was basically Ryan Weiss and Grafhic who really looked
around and realized what kind of people are really doing shit up here.
Looking at the track listing and who did what on the album is sort of
like seeing a "best of" ist of what's going down in Vancouver. All of
these guys on the album have been around for ages, they've really
been able to hear and understand the culture and the music. The
very fact that we've all concentrated on getting our stuff out there as
a group really says a lot about the community—we all have our solo
things going on and we're all really busy people but this album is just
something we're really pleased with and proud of. Getting our shit'out
and going on tour later on to promote the 12", stuff like that, we're
all really dedicated about our music, it's all we'll ever really want to
do." •
You can visit Kutcomers every Tuesday night at Sou/Good, located in
the back room at the oh so legendary Shine Nightclub in Gastown.
holding down the tables alongside Wilson Hail and Clarence, with
III B providing the rhymes. The 12" release party is on Wednesday,
December JO™ at Atlantis Nightclub. For more Information, check
www.ephin.com.
C<j^r*\. OKSH
/3 For five gloriously freezing days The Red Light Sting acted all bright-
eyed and bushy tailed in New York City. We saw and participated in
the 2003 CMJ Music Marathon. An event that showcases hundreds
of bands, independent films and hosts seminars on several facets of
the music biz as we know it. Our "work" only lasted about 25 minutes
and was finished after the first night. So the five of us—myself, Andy
- Dixon, Geoff Macdonald, Paul Patko and Zoe Verkuylen—ended up
having a pretty good vacation in the Big Apple. Reading about how
much someone partied or how hammered someone was at .a party
is boring and obvious, so I'm leaving that out. However, if pressured, I
just might tell you the story about how three hours before we had to
wake up to catch our flight home, four of us had to clean an entire
bathroom after the other one of us puked in a backed-up toilet that
overflowed with the piss and shit. Good times.
Tuesday, October 21.
We arrive on schedule at Sea-Tac airport for our American Airlines
11:35 flight to New York. Andy, Zoe and I decide to invest in some
headphones for the on-flight movie, Alex and Emma. While the other
four Red Light Stingaz are in deep sleep, my inability to sleep while in
motion leaves me hanging on every one of Luke Wilson's meaningless
words. "Who are you?" he says. At this point in time I really don't
know, and I just want some more granola bars to stave off time and
boredom.
Wednesday, October 22.
It's about eight in the morning when we step off our plane. First stop"
The Hilton. We take two separate cabs to fit all our crap in. Paul and I
arrive first and wait for the others while we see throngs of horn-rimmed
hopefuls line up for their badges. We promptly march up flights of
stairs to the official CMJ booths, and are informed that we are the
first band to receive our, ahem, all-access badges (Note. All-access
seems to be code for NO ACCESS). We then curl up with our gear
and sleeping bags in the hallway and fall asleep to the sounds of
sniggering hipsters who surely have already found a place to stay.
Zoe manages to track down our friend Oscar, and we get to crash at
his Brooklyn pad for a couple of hours.
The club we're playing. The North Six, is a decent club. Hell,
there's a band called Feeble Weiner playing there soon, how classy
is that? We realize too late as we get there that a load-in time of 3pm
has been changed to 5:30. Zoe falls asleep on her keyboard case.
The rest of us nap on the bleachers. A bouncer teUs us about Elliot
Smith's suicide and we all get very bummed out.
The Fata Booking Agency showcase, featuring The Red Light
Sting, The Blood Brothers, The Anniversary and The Vexers, kicks off
around 8pm with Norway's JR Ewing. On their first Eastern U.S. tour.
JR Ewing are very excited to be here and play a tight 25-minute set
consisting mostly of tracks from their briliant modern hardcore slab
Ride Paranoia. Imagine The Refused without the electronics and
poitical agenda. "Who saw us here last night?" asks singer Andreas :
Tylden. No one says a word. Unfortunately, this is the response
throughout their set.
The Red Light Sting play on borrowed equipment, aside from
guitars and our keyboard. It shows, but aside from a few goofs, we
pull it off pretty convincingly. We don't have any other shows to play
while we're here, so we're now in complete vacation mode.
After our set, I interview JR Ewing, and then Andy, Geoff and I take
off in our rented minivan and head out to the Knitting Factory in
Manhattan to catch the French Kiss Records showcase.
We arrived just as S Press was wrapping up their set. Poor man's
Les Savy Fav...'nuff said.
Ex Models stepped up next and delivered a raucous set, with
their bodies contorting and spilling all over the stage and crowd. I
thought there was only one singer in this band. It turns out three of
them have copped the singer from Devo's voice as their own. Funny,
I thought that the singer in center stage would have a guitar around
his neck for a reason. Entertaining, nonetheless.
Les Savy Fav played for the better part of an hour, and while
keeping the kids alive, it seemed a little too much of the same old,
same old. Fat guy (vocalist Tim Harrington) in a pirate costume?
Check. Fat guy takes off said pirate costume? Check. Fat guy jumps
in crowd, runs up and down the stairs and allbver the club? Check.
Did he grind up to people, both willing and unwilling, and act all
sensual in that oh, so ironic way? Yup. Rumours circulate that their
show two days from now, at which the singer purportedly jumped into
a fish tank and swam with a mermaid, is their last.
We meet up with the others back at North Six and get back to
Oscar's apartment around 4am.
Thursday, October 23.
Woke up around 5pm. Tonight has a very uneventful schedule.
There is not a single band worth checking out. We manage to get to
Downtime to catch a set by Tora Tora Torrance, who, quite frankly,
are bora bora boring. The Minneapolis five-piece just seemed
too gosh-darn nice and wholesome to have convincing rock star
attitudes. Typical At the Drive-In influenced indie rock with a—how
exciting —sassy, nasal-toned vocafist.
We hop back in the minivan and drive to Pianos for a Spin
Magazine party. This is the first of many parties where I notice the
music is a mix of early "80s New Wave and the now-mandatory
dance jam, Outkast's "Hey Ya." We go back to Downtime for another
abysmal afteTparty, manage to get stuck driving our friend Jay back
to Brooklyn to an empty club he claimed would be "bumpin." I fall
asleep in the club. We get back to Oscar's around 4am.
Friday, October 24.
Friday is spent entirely at the Knitting Factory. For the better part
of the night, the club plays host to fan-favorite label, Troubleman
Unlimited, on all three levels of the building. Glass Candy bowed
out last minute, rumoured to have found a better show that night.
Ouch. Hopefully label owner Mike Simonetti didn't have to sheH out
their CMJ fees for them. The show, as well as the Dillinger Escape
Plan/or Dirty Bastard show that follows it, are sold out and badge
exempting, so we sweet talk the bouncer into putting us on the ist.
Highlights include a mind-boggling set on the middle floor by Zs, a
band consisting of two guitar players, two saxophone players and
two drummers. They ai sat down (yes...even the drummers!) with eyes
gazing intently at the sheet music in front of them, tossing out six finely
crafted tunes that simulated improv skronk/free jazz. Next up was
D.C.'s Measles Mumps Rubella, freaking out in a now all too familiar
dance-punk way, yet somehow managing to stay leagues ahead of
the competition. A refreshing mix of Q and Not U modernism injected
with Nick Cave-esque vocals and a chaos almost reminiscent of that
Das Audience record (Pre-Vue). Other notable sets were performed
by Touchdown.
Lowlights included a set by the new Need project. King Cobra.
whose similarity fo their previous band reminded me why I disliked
the metal-tinged Need in the first place, and a truly unimpressive set
by "legendary hip hop crew" Death Comet Crew, who just seemed
uncomfortable to be on stage again after some 20 years apart.
After the Troubleman Showcase, the crowd was forced to clear
out so the club could prepare for Dillinger Escape Plan/OI' Dirty
Bastard show: Dillinger Escape Plan brought out the bro contingent,
who moshed insanely for their math-metal heroes. A new muscle-
bound singer graced the stage, performing songs old and new.
As the band sets down, the crowd gets restless and starts chanting
"Dirrrrrrty, Dirrrrrty" and "WU TANG!" Some of the newly christened Dirt
McGirt's entourage pumps up the crowd and hypes up some truly
whack MCs who are supposed to go on before Dirty. The main MC
looks up in the bleachers and gets the crowd to yell with him at the
promoter to pay ODB before he plays. Something suspicious is going
on. ODB walks on stage before his cue, cutting the rookie MCs short.
The man of the hour stands center stage in complete silence as the
music plays; he has a glazed, distant look in his eye. For the next hour
or so he stumbles on his lines, forgets entire verses, and manages to
only complete one song...by singing the same verse three times. His
entourage, which grew to about 15-20 on the stage by night's end,
kept saying to not mind the ODB because he was probably just drunk.
JjL» C *\ aCfcO.     M but his immobility suggested he was just plain fucked up. Very sad.
Apparently we thought it was a good idea to bring one member
of ODB's crew home with us. Look out for Boogie Black, who says he's
ahem with Wu Tang. He called our friend Lisa, who he saw during the
show, while he was in the minivan with us and managed to sweet talk
her into getting out of bed, leaving her hotel and coming out with
us. In the morning I could hear him calling up Ns friend and telling
him about the night. "Yo, I spent the night with this rock band, man.
You wouldn't believe the night I had, man." Neither can we. Boogie.
Neither can we.
Saturday, October 25.
We woke up early to meet with some friends for lunch, but had to
drop off Boogie first. We drive around for about 45 minutes, have a
group sing-a-long to Temple of the Dog, and end up dropping off
Boogie on a street comer to catch a cab. He's sketched out about
the whole ordeal, so Zoe ends up giving him $15 for cab fare.
An early afternoon show at Piano's had Hella play a tight 45-minute
set, all things considering. Zach Hill's drum kit kept faWng apart
in between and during songs, but it mattered ittle as he plowed
and pummeled the kit with the skill that truly has to be seen to be
beieved.
Later that night at our new home, the Knitting Factory, Dim Mak
records owner Steve Aoki showcased 15 of his finest bands on a
completely sold out Saturday night. Another three-level affair, this
showcase saw fantastic sets by Pretty Girts Make Graves. Miracle
Chosuke. Young People, Dance Disaster Movement, and a slough
of others. Portland noise/free jazz wonders Die Monitor Bats, now
apparently a three-piece, skronked their way into the basement
crowd's heart with a short, hip-gyrating set inducing .such gems as
"Open Up Your Legs, and Release the Bats."
Hint+lint's brief set on the middle floor had singer Peter Quirk
stumbing around and falling over the monitors. Apparently he's not
used to his newfound freedom, having dropped the keyboard aspect
of his performance in favour of being a front man. Thankfully his. as   ■
well as the rest of the Seattle quintet's charm and talent saved what
could have been a disastrous set.
The Gossip's set on the top floor had the entire crowd hanging
off of their every move, despite Southern-crooning singer Beth Ditto
noting it was "about eight thousand o'clock in the morning."
Sunday, October 26.
Our early morning flight still sees everyone but me sleeping. Andy and
I eagerly anticipate our on-flight movie, which turns out to be Rowan
"Mr. Bean" Atkinson's latest vehicle, Johnny English. Bummer. We get
back to Vancouver around 4 pm. I sleep until 7am the next morning. •
The DiSCORDER Christmas Questionnaire
Zoe Verkuylen (of Ache Records and The Red Light Sting).
What do you do?
Take Care of Business.
Favourite record of 2003 and why?
I can't just pick one...so...Pretty Girls Make Graves The New Romance.
Secret Mommy Babies That Hunt, 50 Cent Get Rich or Die Tryh', The
Blood Brothers Bum Piano Island turn. L'il Kim La Bella Mafia, Death
From Above Heads Up.
»moment of 2003?
Touring and spanning time in NYC and LA.
Wont moment of 2003?
When the drive shaft tel off the van on the Hollywood freeway at
3am, with Paul and Greg really wasted, and then Paul cimbed the
scaffolding at the side of the highway and passed out. and then the
tow truck ran out of gas on the way to Mkey's house. That was pretty
bad.
What do you want for Christmas?
A Rice Cooker, records, books.
Tofurkeyorfurducken?
Tofurkey.
i song and why?
Chariie Brown " Christmas Time Is Here."
New Year's resolution?
Be irresponsible and more lazy. •
i
Mm
The DiSCORDER Christmas Questionnaire
Name?
Andy Dixon (of Ache Records/The Red Light Sting/Secret Mommy/The
Chemistry Designs).
What do you do?
I co-run Ache Records, make music as Secret Mommy, play guitar in
The Red Light Sting, and operate The Chemistry Designs.
Favourite record of 2003 and why?
Matmos-The CMI War. Because it's a brilliant record with lots of guests
orr it doing great stuff. A nice balance of amazing processing and
electronics, and melody.
Ex Models-Zoo Psychology: I've never heard anything ike the
music on this record. I love the incredible rhythms and total frantic
quality.-.plus I saw them ive and they shattered my realty..
Most memorable moment of 2003?
Probably when me and Paul sow Dick Clark on a street in New York,
and then al these jocks started chanting "WE LOVE DICK. WE LOVE
DICK."
Worst moment of 2003? .   .
That was when I accidentaly flushed a clogged toilet full of someones
poo and Zoe's barf and had to spend the next several hours cleaning
it up with my friends from four to six in the morning, then having to get
on an airplane. ,":"?:J^-.-i
What do you want for Christmas?
I want everyone in my life to be as happy as they can be...that. and
to put out a Mouse On Mars record. Well actually, the, first thing on my
Christmas 1st is a vacuum.
Tofurkey or turducken?
I have had Tofurkey and it wasn't too hot. I don't know what that
other one is, but it's got the word "turd" in it, so I'm not too down...l'l
go with the Tofurkey.
Favourite Christmas song and why?
I Ike "Christmas Bells" because it's kind of dark sounding...plus it
doesn't get ruined with a bunch of words about love and baby Jesus.
New Year's resolution?
To quit smoking, quit my job, sell my SUV, get a gym membership and
reaBy-enjoy fife. *
sCtctt^, 4*<4«rv%j     tS W:M
****&ls
*K
yMNmL '*^:/k
f
yr>
/'
Ak kt
The first thought that enters people's minds when you mention Sub
Pop is, "Oh that grunge label from Seattle label, right?" Well, yeah
and no. If you haven't been paying attention you could be forgiven
for thinking that the once great label was now in retrogressive decline,
desperately clinging to its former glory days by releasing re-issue
after re-issue of Mudhoney demos ond maybe even the odd Tad live
recording. In fact, you couldn't be more wrong. Sub Pop is label of
the year and 2003 has seen them go from strength to strength. Here
at CiTR nary a month has gone by when we haven't be enjoying one
Sub Pop release while eagerly awaiting the postman to drop the next
in our laps. It's been amazing.
True, last year was good: Ugly Casanova's self-titled debut and
Iron and Wine's The Creek Drank the Cradle were particular highlights,
but this year has been simply stellar. It's reflected in our best albums
of the year list. Count 'em. Four, that's four entries! All from the one
label! And it's not all grunge-influenced stuff. It almost too easy to say
that there's no such thing as a Sub Pop sound any longer, but really
there's isn't. What do The Postal Service and The Constantines have
in common? Or Iron and Wine and the left-wing stand-up comedy
of David Cross? Not bloody much. In fact, looking at all their releases
this year, from The Shins to The Thermals through even to the jagged
lo-fi country of the Baptist Generals and the mental instrumentation
pf Kinski, the only common factor is the quality of the music. This is
why they are DiSCORDER's Label of the Year for 2003. And despite
the fact that the last few years has seen nothing but success for the
Seattle-based label, clmbing out of the hole dug by mid-90s grunge
has taken considerable work. I got on the phone and had a good
old chin-wag with Sub Pop's most familiar face, label head Jonathan
Poneman. One of the two founding members, he told me the tale of
a tiny label that exploded big with Nirvana in the early 90s, crashed
hard by overreaching itself in the mid 90s and finally blossomed forth
in the golden renaissance of the last few years.
DiSCORDER: How did you start Sub Pop?
Jonathan Poneman: Well, Bruce Pavitt actually started Sub Pop,
he was the founder of the label. And Sub Pop was founded as a
column in a magazine called OP, which was the forerunner of Option
magazine. It was originally called Subterranean Pop, and the column
focused on independent music that was being created in cities other
than the cities that are commonly regarded as the music capitals of
North America, which would be, you know. New York, Nashville and
Los Angeles. Then Bruce went from this to creating a column in the
Rocket magazine, which you may or may not remember, it was a
music magazine in Seattle that was edited by Charles Cross who later
went on and did that Nirvana biography [Heavier than Heaven].
Bruce and I hooked up in 1987, he had just put out Dry as a Bone,
Green River's second EP, and I had briefly managed Soundgarden.
I think my one managerial act actually was canceling a show they
had at The Railway Club.
The Railway Club? Here in Vancouver?
Yeah. That was it. Anyway, we both basically caught on to the same
idea at the same time: "Wow, there are all these great bands in
Seattle, but Seattle doesn't have a record label that's putting any of
this out. So let's do it and let's do it on a fulltime basis." So I broke my
piggy bank and we borrowed some money from some friends and
then away we went. We started it as a full time venture on April 1,
April?
Yeah, April Fool's day, a very auspicious day.
What happened to Bruce Pavitt?
Bruce retired. He ives in secluded luxury up on Orcas Island, which is
part of the San Juans.
And you've taken over the sole responsibility for running Sub Pop?
[Shouting] I AM THE GOD! No, but yeah—Bruce has a family, I don't.
Bruce has a life, I don't. But seriously, this has been my crowning
passion.
Where you ever hungry?
Oh yeah, I was totally hungry. But hungriness is really such a relative
thing. My hunger is now reaUy the hunger of the people that work
here. You know, my responsibility at this point is just to make sure that
the doors are open. But Sub Pop's renaissance has little to do with my
involvement, except that I've created the platform for it.
That's my next question in a way, how involved are you these days?   -
Well, I'm here right now, that's pretty damn involved.
So what's an average day for you at the record label?
My average day is: I come in and check my email, kinda walk around
the floor to see what people are doing. Err, look at my watch, ask
somebody if it's time for lunch. Shuffle back to my office .to take a
nap. Listen to CDs, wake up, look at my watch...is it time to go home
yet? You get the idea.
Yeah. Are you a good boss?
I like to think I am, yeah.
*mki #4r\
Moving on to fhe Sub Pop renaissance, I guess first we have to talk
about what happened with fhe grunge thing—I'm not gonna ask you
too much about it because it's been dealt with—but what was It like
dealing with the backlash against that type of music that followed in
the mid 90s?
Well, Bruce and I were good enough students of pop culture to know
that even before it exploded, it would cave in. We both had different
approaches as to how to deal with it. Bruce's more conscious of
what other people think about things, which you've gotta be when
you own a record label. You can't be completely self-referential.
I, however, was more self-referential because I figure that if I like it,
a lot of people are gonna ike it because I don't have that refined
a taste. I'm quite populist. There's a certain Fred Flintstone aspect
to my approach to things. So we signed a lot of things. At first there
was a lot of discipline in terms of what we would sign and then we
lost that and we really lost it. After a while, in Sub Pop's dark ages,
we went from having this very strict focus to having virtually no focus
at all. Then, basically what happened was there was an infusion
of new individuals who came in and our A&R pbicy opened up
considerably. There was a period of time at Sub Pop where very, very
good, very well-intentioned people were commanding our A&R, our
talent scouting and basically our artist relations and, though they had
a vision, it didn't result in anything that was particularly exciting.
Was there ever a point when Sub Pop was In real trouble and it could
. have ceased to be?
You know, ironically, not really. There have been a tot of rumours
about Sub Pop's demise, but we are a pretty dam strong label.
We definitely dug a deep hole at one point but we always had
resources, and we've always had the ability to pull the belt in tight
when we've needed to. Of course, the irony is that a lot of the
people who sounded our imminent demise are either no longer in
the music industry, or they're working for labels who now have to do
what we did several years ago: radically downsize and quit spending
ridiculous amounts of money on ridiculous things.
What was the lowest point for you and Sub Pop?
I think the lowest point was the year 1997. It's hard for me—all the
years kinda blend together in terms of what came out when. I just
felt that things were at their most incoherent then. We had twice as
many employees as we do now. It was just a huge exercise in hubris.
We had a Sub Pop London headquarters and we even had a Sub
Pop Toronto headquarters. Well, we had a Toronto headquarters
simply because in one of our more folly-laden exercises we signed
all these Canadian bands. Now, I happen to think, and I've always
thought, that there are great bands in Canada but it's ultimately up
to Canadians. And that's a hard gig because Canada is such a small
r«*\«Cea w$   Con.sr%fy,r)\
^^^W
,n*L>
«$&**".
FosmM&t,
MC&
country, I mean it's small population-wise and so big geographically.
There was a point in time when we had like five or six Canadian bands
out of a roster of 20 to 25.
Do you still have either of those offices?
Oh, no, no, no. The only office Sub Pop has is 2514,4th Avenue, Seattle,
Washington.
So what was the point where things starred changing?
I would say that things started to change when one of our original
receptionists, this woman named Megan Jasper, who is presently the
general manager of Sub Pop, came back. She's a force of nature.
She had worked at Sub Pop for a couple of years and went from
being a receptionisf to being a salesperson, but Bruce and I had to
do one of our periodic radical downsizes and we let her go. Then
she proceeded to work for one of the distribution companies that
distributed our records in the States. She came back to Sub Pop in
1998 as our head of marketing. And she is someone who is beloved
by all our artists. She's an incredible manager, far more competent
at managing people than I've ever been. She has directed a great
crew of people who are inspired about music, which is the most
important thing. They've managed to put the artist first instead of their
record label jobs and status. I mean, most people who work at music
companies can't fit their heads through the goddamn door, you
know? What the fuck?!! All we're ddng is being the advocates for the
artists. I mean, it's a nice job, it's a great job, but it's not like you're the
artist. You're their advocate. Get of your goddamn high horse.
One of the other things I wanted to ask you about was the rumour I
heard about Isaak Brock [lead singer of Modest Mouse] being on the
Sub Pop payroll. Is this true?
Isaak Brock is indeed on the payroll. He is an A&R person. Isaak was
critical in bringing Holopaw to the label. And he also had more of an
indirect participation in bringing The Shins to the label.
And that was a good decision?
I think so.
bigger or longer? [Shouting] JUMBO SIZE THAT SHINS RECORD! Like,
fuck, man. KyllliS
Did Iron and Wine's coming to Sub Pop have anything to do with Isaak
Brock?
No, actually. Mike McGonigal from Sad Robot Records has a
fanzine called Yefi, which is really good. And the first Yeti had an
accompanying CD that featured a track by Iron and Wine. I was
dying to hear more of this stuff so we called Sam [Beam, i.e.. Iron and
Wine] and got him to send two CDs worth of music from which we
culled The Creek Crank the Cradle. It was just incredible.
That's an amazing album. The way it's recorded is fantastic.
Well, I'll tell you, he just finished what's going to be his second album
which is coming out in March next year and it is...phew! He worked
with Brian Deck [ex-member of Sub Pop greats Red Red Meat].
Yeah, he's been an essential producer and player in your
renaissance.
Yeah, he did Ugly Casanova. He used to be in Red Red Meat, a
seminal Sub Pop band if I may say so myself. And then he did the
Holopaw record, he did the Fruit Bats' records and he just finished the
new Iron and Wine record and it is unbelievable.
Has Iron and Wine's Sam Beam changed direction?
Err, no, the record after this one will be the change of direction. I
don't say thaf cynically, Ike we're plotting it out.jDutWcnow that
Sam's working with completely different textures and sounds now. The
upcoming record is gonna be the definitive statement of this kinda
music. Unbelevable song writing. It's really, really good.
Every month this year it seems there was something good from you
guys. But the biggest Sub Pop favourite of the last few years at CiTR
has not been a music CD at all. It was David Cross's Shut Up You
Fucking Baby. A stand-up comedy albuml
Oh, right on. He's gonna have a new album out as well, in April or
May next year.
Yeah, me too. Their first album blew me away and the second is Just        Was that a risk, putting out a comedy record?
And there's a lot of great stuff that hasn't even made it to a record
yet.
And their records are so short!
Yeah, weH, that's the thing: it's quality, not quantity. It'd be Ike looking
at the Mona Lisa and gdng, "God, that would be so much better if
it was 20 by 20 feet." Like, since when does something have to be
Wei, it's hard to say. When we're ddng our budgets we always think,
"How much is this gonna sell?" But, at the same time, he's so unique
and what he is saying is so important. The whole of the United States
of America cannot be repubican, there's got to be other people Ike
myself who think all of this stuff is bullshit. Turns out that there are a lot
of people that think that.
Is there a band you wish you never let go of?
Not realty. I mean, at the time I may have felt that way, but things
move on when they need to move on. I'm not trying to sound all new
age-y. But if you enjoy what we're doing now, the reason why, it's
because there is a lot of fluidity on the Sub Pop label. There are no
bands like, say. Guided By Voices. You know, they're a great band,
seminal band, blah blah blah, but enough already! That's going right
at you, Bob Pollard. I hope he reqds-this—enough already! Bands can
be great but what keeps me excited is hearing new stuff.
Is Sub Pop at the point now where you can hold on to bands and not
let them get poached by a bigger label?
Yeah, we are. But agdn, that's not even the point. If bands aren't
happy here they should move on. Our contracts are pretty short arid
we're pretty cheap and if people like it around here then they're
gonna hang on. We don't have a tet of artists who do spit, but that
may in the long run end up being a problem. Every release spot on
our label is a very important thing and we don't wanna clutter it
up with a bunch of records that aren't going to be meaningful to
peode. Maybe three, or even four times a year we indulge and say,
"We all think this is cool, even if you think it blows."
A tot of people these days seem very fond of the phrase "There are no
real independent record labels anymore." What do yew think? Is this
true?
Well, it's funny, I don't know if you've been reading the music press
recently but Edgar Bronfman who was the Seagrams heir, he's in
the process of buying Warner Music from Time Warner. So their
catchphrase is that Warner Music is gonna be the world's largest
independent record label. And, in a manner of speaking, that's true,
in the sense that it won't be owned by a major corporation and
it won't be owned by stockholders. It's gonna be a privately-held
company. They're all owned by major multinational corporations
right now. But I think independence is more of a spirit than anything
else. I think it's so important for people to be able to seize the power
for themselves in every aspect of life, be it becoming your own
record label, distributing your own books, or whatever. And the great
thing about the digital world is that all of these barriers that once
kept people from being able to have their art distributed freely and
vastly are coming down, sometimes at the expense of the recording
industry. But I don't think that that is a bad thing because in the long
run there's going to be a digital meritocracy. We sell tons of Shins CDs
and people buy that CD because they wanna buy a dece of art.
Yeah, I think after the big spurt of downloading, people are now
actually starling to feel guilty and have started buying records again.
They wanna support the artist, especially when they realise that a tot
Continues on next page...
jUacs***&i**'a™f' t* n-^tr^rfLaiM/'
*?fy caf+ntv*
of the bands they are downloading are roughly o
level as themselves.
That's absolutely true. Consumers are not stupid.
the same poverty
7e/u  test
9{ the  $<**(>
eftafssam
it's a cliche question, but how does Sub Pop feel about downloading?
Do you feel the effects?
Wei, yeah. But it's primarily been a positive thing for us. I'm sure we're
losing sales, I'm sure we're losing money but on the other hand we're
also gaining exposure. The thing about burning and downloading
ond "piracy" is that it gives the responsible consumer and listener
the chance to check something out, and maybe they'll wanna go
out and buy it. I think creating access among music listeners is a very
important thing.
The big thing at the moment is that labels are beginning to put their
songs up on Ine to be downloaded for a price. Warp, for example,
recently put their entire bock catalog on their website. Does Sub Pop
have any plans for a similar venture?
Wei, we're' doing it through iTunes. We're gdng to do it ourselves but
there's a lot of structural upgrading that we're gdng to have to do to
make the music available through the Sub Pop-site.
Is selling music through iTunes paying off?
Wei, it's very early days but ultimately it's going to do just fine. We '
don't-.make any less per track than we make in a bricks and mortar
situation so it's fine.
What has been the favourite record that you've ever released?
[Laughs] That's sorta Ike asking a parent to choose their favourite kid.
There's so many records that I'm proud—you'd have to dedicate the
whole issue to it.
What has been the highest point in your career, then? The moment
when you were like, "Wow, This is amazing, I can't believe I'm doing
this."
Imvit was probably just a couple of weeks ago when the new Shins -
record came out because I fee! Ike we had had a great year and
then having that record come out and having it get the reception
it dd. The whole thing around the grunge phenomenon is that we
redly ddn't know what we were ddng. I mean, it was fun, but when
you actually kinda know what you are doing.... Thishas really been
t a great year for us intemaly and it's very meaningful and I'm very
grateful that people ike you acknowledge it.
Yeah, we've been loving it.
' I think next year is gonna be another great' year. In fact, I think if s
gdng to be an even better year artistically. I don't know if you've
heard The Elected or All Night Radio—those are the first two records
we're putting out. Keep an eye out for them. All Night Radio is Farmer
Dave [Dave Scher], who was the pedal steel player for Beachwood
Sparks, and Jimi Hey. Jimi's been in number of bands—he played
fri Strictly Ballroom and he played keyboards in The Rapture for a
while. Al Night Radio has got this Moby Grape vibe, Ike baroque art
psychedela—it's a very trippy record. •
The Shins "New Slang" (from 2001 's Oh, Inverted World)
The track that seduced both Sub Pop and the McDonald's
Corporation. Sub Pop wanted them to sell records. McDonald's
wanted them to sell fries. Strange, considering the song contdns the
lines "New slang when you notice the stripes / the drt in your fries."
Yay Shins! One in the eye of dg business.
Ugly Casanova "Things I Don't Remember" (from 2002s Sharpen Your
Teeth)
Lead single from the astoundingly beguiling Sharpen your Teeth
album. At the instigation of Modest Mouse's Isaak Brock a super group
was created, including the likes of Caifone's Tim Rutii, Holopaw's
John Orth, Paul Jenkins of The Black Heart Procession with Red Red
Meat's Brian Deck behind the boards. "There was cum on the dano!"
. Isaak appears to yelp at one point—someone probably just got a little
bit overexcited because the song was so good.
The Baptist Generals "Preservatine" (from 2003s No Silver/No Gold)
Though it took me a while to crack this crackly to-fi country nut, I'm
so glad I persevered. While nonplussed with a few cursive listens,
seeing them ive at The Department of Safety really opened up The
Baptist General's sound for me. And I wasn't the only one loving
them: I distinctly remember the giggle of a small child during their
performance of this song, the best on the album. And always trust the
kids—it's al so instinctive with them.
The Thermals "No Culture Icons" (from 2003s More Parts Per Million)
Taken to Sub Pop by Benjamin Gibbard (of Death Cab for Cutie and
The Postal Service), this Portland based three-piece strip down the
rock'n'roll formula and race voice/guitar/bass/drums to clattering
lo-fi finish. Catchy and metedc ike Guided By Voices but with added
velocity. Blnk and you'* miss it.
Iron and Wine "Upward Over the Mountain" (from 2002s The Creek
Drank tne Cradle)
Normdly, music critics throw around the words ike "heartbreakingly
beautiful" Ike they're hot potatoes injected with a particularly
voracious strain of the SARS virus. When faced with "Upward Over
the Mountain," however, this critic has nowhere to go but the
aforementioned phrase. On this song Sam Beam (the sole member of
Iron and Wine) comes on ike Oedipus with an acoustic guitar and a
job lot of Nick Drake records. The salty water coming out of your eyes?
They're teardrops.
The Postal Service "Nothing Better" (from 2003's Give Up)
Who's laughing now? Those of us who scoffed at the 80s are al eating
our words with a Wg spoon. I never Iked the Human League's "Dont
You Want Me?" but here I am, it's 2003 and I'm basically listening
to the post-millennial inde equivalent and loving every minute. The
Postal Service were genius this year and probably the band most
praised by misty-eyed teenage doggers the wortd over. Ben Gibbard
and Jenny Lewis day the parting couple while Jimmy Tamboreio
plays the fade-out music. There was nothing better this year.
Holopaw "Short-Wave-Hum (Stutter)" Oram 2003s Holopaw)
Sub Pop started this year with a one-two double whammy. The Postal
Service's Give Up provided the first blow, but it was Holopaw that
folowed up with a self-titled punch in the gut. I can't praise these
Florida boys enough. Their music's simdy beautiful and John Orth's
voice is a rare drd indeed, feathery, spry and just light enough to rest
deicatehrover Holopaw's modern glitch-infected country. I can't
really cho6se a song from this album that's better than the rest, but
dumped for this one because of the cheeky almost out of tune
whistling during the second verse. And I can't really describe how well
it fits the mood of the song, you'll just have to isten for yourself. It'll
make you smile, that much is guaranteed.
The Constantines "Nighttime/Anytime (It's Alright)" (from 2003's Shine
alight)
This joint release with Three Gut Records proved that Sub Pop
doesn't just showcase America's best, it also keeps an ear out for
anything shaking north of the border. And this Guelph, Ontario five-
dece certdnly do their fair amount of shaking. We've all heard the
Bruce-Springsteen-fronting-Fugazi comparisons but that's only the
tip of the iceberg. This modem day slab of soul shot through with
urban paranoia helped Shine a Light become fhe Canadian dbum
released this year, bar none. They might not be The Boss, but they sure
are boss.
Hot Hot Heat "Bandages" (from 2002s Make up the Breakdown)
Truth be told Hot Hot Heat have a lot of enemies here at QiSCQRDEK.
Bad blood, local jealousy and an interview that went very wrong
have done them no favours. Even I have been known to scoff at the
furry foursome by referring to them as High High Hair (props Jenni
Neteonl) qs much as was humanly possible. But there's something
to be sdd for a bunch of local boys who can grab Britain by fhe
bdtocts, shake their tight pants with the best of them and write songs
as catchy as this. And goddamit, If our girlfriends don't just love them.
Lucky bastards.
David Cross "If Baseballs Had AIDS on Them" (from 2002's Shut Up You
Fucking Baby)
How can someone standing on a stage pdntlng out the deeding
obvious be so fucking funny? I don' t know—we just live in a fucked-
up world, I guess. That aside, David Cross is funny. Split-your-pants,
piss-in-a-bag, slap-your-grandmother funny. You can't really choose
a track from this performance because you need to Isten to it all.
And anyway as David told DiSCORDER in an interview last year, the
naming of the tracks on the album is completely arbitrary. He realised
that he could cal each one whatever he wanted because it was
just another chance to make people laugh. My job was easy I simply
choose the best title. See what I mean? Ftt's funny. •
Of course fen songs could never cover all the brilliant music that Sub
Pop has released over the past tow years and honourable mentions
must go to Klnski's "Semaphore." Michael Yonkers Band's "Boy In
the Sandbox." Fruit Bats' "Magic Hour" and many, many more. It you
wanna check out more (and I'm sun you do), wwwjubpop.com has
an extensive collection of downloads which will sate your need until
you can afford fo buy of fhe albums mentioned here.
J*4,C9%Jx*.    I* Elephants, Hell's Angels and coked-up sluts: Ian Gormely discovers the
inspiration that drives Ontario duo Death From Above. .
Upon first listen. Death From Above could be best described as a wall
of sound. The duo's heavy bass and drums sound kicks out the jams
with skull-crushing abandon. However, beneath the turbulent storm
lies an inherent sense of melody. Indeed, Death From Above's sound
is far more calculated than a casual listen lets on. "I always wanted
to write songs on bass," explains bass player Jesse F. Keeler. "All
electronic music, all jungle, all house, all hip hop, all everything is bass
and drums. Something that I really love about house music: is that it's
so difficult to be creative in the confines of the format. You can't mess
around with the time, you can't mess around with all kinds of stuff. We
have to be creative in a simple way, so having only two instruments
and still being creative is a challenge.".
As a result of being faced with this daunting task. Death From
Above have created one of the most efficient sounds in music. In a
short fury of sound, the band's songs leave little space for the listener
to reflect on what they have just heard. Yet each song stays with
you long after the record is over. Though at a loss for a description
of their sound, Keeler feels that Death From Above's style can be
inferred from the diversity of their fans. "We have twelve-year-old kids
that want us to autograph everything. I autographed a Billy Talent
t-shirt two days ago. We have Hell's Angels that liken us to AC/DC
and Motorhead. They listen to Death from Above at the Hell's Angels
clubhouse in Toronto. We have nerds that love it, and girls that look
like they put on everything in their mom's closet...they love it too. We
have serious rap guys from Scarborough and Toronto coming to our
shows that want us to do backing music. I guess the reason that it's
so hard to describe our sound is because there's so many weird and
disconnected groups of people that all seem to get something out of
it." \*&j!£
According to Sebastion Grainger, the group's drummer and lead
vocalist, songwriting for a band Ike Death From Above is relatively
easy. "The good thing about being a two-dece is that when things
are in the theoretical stage they're not that far from being practical
because it just takes an idea and we go and do it. There's not a lot
of discussion involved and it's not too compicated. The dynamic is
pretty easy." Adds Keeler, "Some of our songs were written literally in
minutes, music-wise anyway, the lyrics take longer. But sometimes the
lyrics flow pretty fast too. We're really comfortable playing with each
other and it's not hard to write, it's just a question of finding the time.
Death From Above's lyrics are as passionate and intense as their
music, filled with references to failed relationships and a sense of
carrying on in Ife. "Those lyrics were written in a specific period of my
We," explains Grainger. "I was seeing a lot of my friends changing.
There was sort of a metamorphosis amongst my group of friends.
I was observing a lot of politics within friendships and it ended up
sounding really emo, I guess. The duo's debut EP Heads Up opens with
the particularly scathing "Dead Womb" which includes the line "so
tired of sluts coming to us in the clubs with their cocaine." The club it
references is one that Keeler used to DJ at. Keeler recalls that "[The
club] was awesome if you were one of those people, but it was really
shitty if you're one of us." Grainger elaborates, "We would see a lot of
people who were constantly making bad decisions. At the time I was
getting seriously involved with my girlfriend, and I was just so sick of
seeing shitty girls being shitty and acting shitty, and I was just so happy
that I didn't have to deal with that because I'd found someone who
was the antithesis of it.
Though hailing from Ontario, Death From Above are signed to
local independent label Ache Records, run by The Red Light Sting's
Andy Dixon and Zoe Verkuylen, with whom Death From Above played
their first shows. The label is also home to Keeler's other band Femme
Fatale. "I just told them that me and Sebastien have something else
going which was more in theory than it was in practice," he explains.
"We made some three track recordings sent it to them...and they
said, 'We'll do a record for you.'"
Like most things about Death from Above, the artwork for Heads
Up is strikingly different. The cover is simply a sketch of Keeler and
Grainger's heads with elephant trunks where their noses should be.
The elephant imagery comes from Keeler's original concept of the
band's sound. "You know the Sonic Youth song called 'Scooter + Jinx'
from Goo? I always thought that it sounded like elephants. The bass
sound that we have, when I was first fucking around with it, that's
when I was like, "Wow, this kind of sounds like elephants," and I like
elephants anyway.
When, asked about the possibility of a full-length LP, Grainger
explains that "At this point we just want to give people little tastes."
Keeler goes on to explain that Heads Up "is a really time specific
record for us. I don't like the idea of writing songs over the course of a
two year period and then putting them all on one record. Maybe not
musically, but emotionally for me I'd like it to be more cohesive."
Anxious Death From Above fans will be happy to hear that the
band will remdn active touring in the foreseeable future, and has
new material on the way. "We're doing a short EP [on Sound virus]
with remixes and stuff as well, and we're constantly working on new
material, as often as we have a chance," says Grainger. Keeler adds,
"The only thing that frustrates us about being on tour right now is that I
don't have time to just sit down with my bass and play. •
Death From Above's new EP Is out In January on Sound Virus Records.
The DiSCORDER Christmas Questionnaire
Name?
Jesse F. Keeler (Death From Above/Femme Fatale).
What do you do?
Help kids go deaf.
Favourite record of 2003 and why?
Mobb Deep mixtape 2xLP.
Most memorable moment of 2003?
Being thrown out of Quebec.
Worst moment of 2003?
(Almost) being banned from
What do you want for Christmas?
Sdnners.
Tofurkey or turducken?
Both, in a salad...wait. I don't know what either of those are.
Favourite Christmas song and why?
"Christmas in Hollis" by Run DMC. You know why.
^  bl*s^*siy. Mf
The Department of Safety is no ordinary venue. When my friend
cdled me up and asked if I wanted to go and see The Mountain
Goats in Anacortes, Washington, I didn't have to think very long
before I replied with a great big "Yes." But I ddn't expect what I
found once we had parked the car and amded up to the venue.
Housed in an old firehouse. The Department of Safety dd appear a
little weird at first, I mean, no drinks, no alcohol, nothing. Nada. But
when, during The Baptist Generals' set, a toddler tottered around
between the cross-legged crowd, gleefuly interrupting the music
with exdtable laughter, it all became clear: The Department of Safety
needs such a safe haven to create its magic. It's all about access
and inclusiveness—a safe place to meld every aspect and group of
society together without the rigorous rules that society imposes on the
more liquored venues.
Akin to Vancouver's very own (Sugar Refinery) in many respects,
from which founding members Aaron Flint Jamison, Alex Mahan,
Melissa Sinclair and Tammy Masalonis freely admit they took no small
measure of insdration. The Department of Safety really is something
special. Like I sad, first of all it's home is a firehouse in the commercial
district among the supermarkets and drive-thru coffee places. And it
was created as the brdnchild of four graduates, or at least attendees,
of Langley's Trinity Western University. What started as the germ of
an idea between the four of them has now become a real life safe
haven for the youth of sleepy little Anacortes, Washington. It's the
success story of the year and one of best venues around. Just smile at
the border guard, tell 'em you're going to a place where they don't
even tolerate "anyone appearing to be high" and you'l be fine.
Welcome to Anacortes, Washington—the safest dac® on earth.
I crouched on the stairs of The (Sugar Refinery) one rainy night
at a recent Mount Eerie show and chatted with founding members
Aaron Fint Jamison and Alex Mahan.
DiSCORDER: So you guys went to Trinity Western University in Langley?
AH four of you?
Aaron Flint Jamison (Flint): Yeah, the first four of us that started
the place, we all went there. Well, one of us only went there for a
semester, and we just knew her as a friend from Portland.
Alex Mahan: We al met at university.
Isn't that a Christian university?
Flint: Yes. Totally. Kinda strange. This is a whole other story, but
we developed a lot of our insdration from this place [The (Sugar
Refinery)]. We spent a lot of our four years while in university here.
Alex: The (Sugar Refinery) was sort of a home away from home for us.
I noticed that when I went down to the Department. I found myself
thinking, "Wow. It's like the Sugar Refinery, but in a firehouse!"
Flint: Yeah. I think we initially really romanticised the idea of
developing this really sustainable notion of life imitating art, or
something cheesy like that. And after that whole thing had been
demythologised we just ended up with this space, where we just
happened to be living and putting on shows, art shows and music
events and stuff like that.
How did it all happen? I mean, you all finished university and then one
of you found the firehouse?
FHnt: Oh, there's this whole crazy story. There's this amazing building-
should I talk about the buildng, Alex?
Alex: Yeah, just keep it short.
Flint: Yeah, so there was this amazing building that we were super in
love with, but it was in Canada, and it was kind of abandoned. It was
an old bakery.
Alex: South Langley, in horse country.
FRnt: It was really an awkward location. And we were redly exdted
about that but we ended up being kicked out of the country
because our student visas were up. So we were just looking for a
building that was similar in architectural style. That particular building
was flat-roofed and very large, and had a prowess that was very Le   .
Corbusier or post-communist.
Kinda functionalist?
Flint: Yeah, very much in the vein of a concrete jungle. And we went
down to a show that a lot of people went down to a couple of years
ago. It was a Bonnie "Prince" Billy show. Just a random show, and Phil
Elvrum [of the Microphones, now Mount Eerie] dayed and Karl [Blau]
played. All these people who we kinda met and we found this fire
station then.
Why Anacortes? Just because of that show?
Alex: Well, the show was amazing and our experience was great:
We sorta wondered why it was in Anacortes and what was gdng
on there. And that day we had seen the firehouse and it had big
"For Rent" signs in the windows, and we al had had ambitions of
having a big space where we could make art and music and just
have a creative community, not only for ourselves, but one that we
could share with high schod kids, or anybody in the community who   .
wanted to come and see art or make art or experience that.
After that, we researched a dt more about Anacortes, we made
some trips down there and just hung out there and reaised how
amazing it actudly was. It's tiny little town, I think there's 15,000
people there or something.
That's fhe thing, on the Department of Safety website you put in a lot
of information about Anacortes and If s clear that you absolutely love
the place.
FRnt: Yeah, we love it. And we love the people there. Even though I
think there are statistics that say there are only 100 people between
the ages of 18 and 29 and most of those people are off at university.
But we absolutely adore it. There's a different community working
there, it's really, really honest. And it really thrives on being inspired
from within. Like inspiration from those people that are around you, it's
really great.
Yeah, I know there's a record label there now.
Flint: Yeah Knw-Yr-Own.
Alex: Our friend Bret Lunsford [ex-member of Beat Happening] runs
that.
FRnt: And he also owns that music shop. The Business. And then our
friends run an amazing restaurant called Adrift. And then there's just
a whole bunch of musicians and creative art people.
Alex: Photographers and people making furniture and clothes and
things like that.
And these were people you met once you'd got down there, you
didn't know them before?
FRnt: For the most part, yeah. And they opened their arms to us. We
could have very easily been shunned by the community, but instead
this community was overtly exdted by us coming in and doing what
we thought we might wanna do.
Abo, it's an all-ages venue. Was that important to you?
Alex: Yeah, we don't wanna exclude people, really. I remember in
high school there were so many shows that were going on in Portland
that I couldn't go to because I wasn't 21. And even a lot of our
experiences at the bar shows in the States have been really bad. It
seemed like people were focusing on drinking rather than the music,
and just being there to party and not really to experience something
beautiful.
Yeah, that was my favourite moment when I went down to the
Department of Safety. There was a IHtle kid giggling during the Baptists
Generals set. It was pretty beautiful. It really added an unusual vibe.
Alex: Yeah, we have tots of toddlers that come and play drums and
stuff. Kids from high school... their bonds day and their friends come,
and it's just really cod for them to be able to do that in their own
community rather than having to go to Seattle or something.
FRnt: Being in a small town, we decided that if there was anybody that
we could identify with at all, it was the probably the high school kids.
And so keedng our place open to them became pretty important to
And you guys also have places to stay for people that are travelling
through, right? ^h'iiM
Flint: Yeah, we have a couple of hostel rooms and we also live there,
and we have some art studios and a gallery. That's about it. During
the summer it's pretty full.
J**CO\ol6\.     *° fU ^
How for afield have people travelled to visit you?
Alex: There's people who've come from Australia and The
Netherlands who have heard about us through friends or the internet
or something. Word of mouth is pretty big. It's really nice to meet
people coming through from all different parts of the country and the
world.
It seems to me that if s been pretty successful for you guys. There was
even a story about The Department of Safety on the CNN website.
Flint: Success is such a hilarious concept. Financially it's not a success
at all. And we're not afraid to display that.
But is that the most important thing, though?
FRnt: We^think The Department is meaningful, right?
Alex: Totally. It's redly meaningful. Like, at our schod, there was this
huge push to become active leaders in business or something, this
huge push towards total cadtalism and commodifying everything
and it just wasn't for us. It felt realy alienating and impersonal and
not meanipgful. So after we finished at university we wanted to do
something that was meaningful to us and others, whether it made
money or not. Being sustainable and keedng it going, but not just for
profit.
Flint: So that's how paying rent works into it. We all live there and pay
rent and that's how we keep the place going.
Yeah, I read that, fhe overhead is swallowed up by you guys paying
fhe rent on the building?
FRnt: Yeah, that's completely true. Any other overhead that we have
will normally be taken out of the money we make on the hostel.
Or the little bit of money we make on a show. But we really don't
make any money. It's crazy but it's great too. I think it helps people
understand that what we're ddng is really kinda honest. I think
people are automatically so suspicious when they walk into any kind
of estabishment, especially in the midst of Western capitalism, so to
kinda subvert that in a non-capitalistic way is really important.
You have had a tot of great people play there, haven't you? BIB Frissel,
for example?
Alex: He was gonna play. It got cancelled. He had to go and see his
mom who was sick.
FRnt: But we had Songs:Ohia and...
Alex: The Long Winters.
FHnt: Yeah, The Long Winters and Irving and The Mountain Goats,
obviously. And it looks Ike we're going to have the Handsome Family
soon.
Who was the biggest for you? What was the moment when you were
Hke. "Wow, this is happening In our placer?
Flint: Songs:Ohia was crazy. That was great, and we're still Ike that
every time we have a show. We try to have shows in this periodic
schedule so as not to burn ourselves out, which still makes music and
art really special to some extent. And we're able to put to together
shows that make us excited.
it's the first time I've been to Anacortes and it struck me as a strange
place, especially the location of The Department of Safety. You're
situated in the middle of a lot of carparks and supermarkets and
drive-thru coffee places.
Alex: Yeah, there's one part of Anacrotes that's really
commercialised. That's why it's called commercial, I suppose, but
the rest of the island is totally beautiful. There's all these mountdns
and forests and lakes, trails and parks. It's really windy. It's so inspiring,
just to experince that, just being on the ocean. I think since everyone
drives in on Commercial they sorta get that impression of Anacortes.
Flint: Did you see the murals of everybody on the sides of the
buildings? ?-3lr^~:,
No, I don't think so.
Pint: Oh, that's something that Anacortes is known for. There's a whole
bunch of realy awkward paintings by this war vet.
FHnt: Some disabled guy paints all these things. He's commissioned by
the city.
Alex: He drives round in a modfied camel gold cart.
FHnt: He smokes hash out of his pipe and he paints all these awkward
portraits of people from Anacortes history. And they put these life-size
murals on the buildings downtown.
Alex: So there's 80 or 90 of them around the town.
FHnt: And they're really kinda creepy.
I read In the press and on fhe website that you guys plan to move on
soon and bequeath the place to someone else.
FRnt: That's the idea. We wanna give it to somebody—a group of
people or a couple of people. So we're kinda actively looking for
people to do that.
So V anybody reading this is interested they should contact you?
Alex: Yeah, it's not a project that we just want to end, we want HrJsr
keep gdng. But at the same we have other things that we want to
do. Grad school and stuff. There's no red time ine because we need
to find the right people.
FHnt: Yeah, and I think it's important for there to be ike a level
of freshness to come in and take over and completely change
everything and do their own thing. •
The Department ot Safety Is located In Anacortes. Washington. You
can find out pretty much all you need to know about mh wonderful
place on their website, ww9t.department0tsafety.com. Upcoming
events of note include, a CD release party for both Mount Eerie and
p:ano on January 30th. $5 US gets you m. Brave the border and go.
Phil Elvrum is Anacortes born and bred. He's also happens to
- be Mount Eerie (nee The Microphones). He's listed as'a resident
gifterformer on The Department of Safety website, he e0pp||j8|iner '■"•
Pfrwe, and even painted the sprawling mural that adarn$j^fe»wbll -
in the main hall (pictured left). I asked him what the Department of
Safety means to him. liSililllll
DiSCORDER: So you're originally from Anacortes, aren't you?
Phil Elvrum: Yeah. I grew up there.
And you went to Norway recently?
Yeah, last winter. I lived about a two-hour bus ride from the northern
city of Bod0. Yeah, living in a cabin in Norway for the winter was
intense.
So I read an interview that you did with us in DiSCORDER a few months
back in which you said you moved back to Anacortes because
"lots of good things were happening." Was one of these things The
Department of Safety?
Yeah, that's it. They're amazing. Could I just talk about how incredible
they are?
Yeah. Go for tt.
Well, they just moved to Anacortes pretty much randomly. Picked
it because they liked the town, but they pretty much randomly just
went there.
Does that seem strange to you, being from Anacortes youself?
I've always thought it was an amazing dace. But it was always a
struggle to get people into it. I mean, once people stay over or
whatever, they go, "Oh, Anacortes is nice." But they never felt like it
was nice enough to Ive there or do anything about it. But Alex, Flint,
Tammy and Melissa moved there and created a sodd scene.
Have they improved Anacortes? Is it belter to live there now?
Yeah. I guess for selfish reasons, for my generation it's always been a
place where you grow up, you go to high school, you leave town. Yoi
know? You grow up hattrvg#ie town, then you move away.
Yeah, I come from a small town too, and I can't Imagine going aU
around the world and then going back to my small town.
Yeah. I dd move away but I never really felt at home anywhere else.
Anacortes hasjust always been..." my home. It's a beautiful place.
I've only been there once and fhe place blew my mind.     - £* &.S'S.
Yeah, The Department of Safety, they just dd such an incredible job.
Everyday I'm ike, "This isn't really happening. This is much too good
to be true. Like, why me? I feel ike it's a personal thing because I've
always really identified with Anacortes. It feels very personal to me.
ike a gift to me.
I noticed on the website, by your name there's a star that indicates
that you're a resident performer. Is that right?
Yeah, I eat dnrier there, hang out there. Stop by pretty much
everyday. •
tftccMfv/i^M^ «/ \
fll*     \JiStOC<Ut   ClwisthCUL,    ^^^l'0rrZOau\p^
Name?
favorite pants actually took
Owen Ashworth.
terrible on me.
What do you do?
What do you want for Christmas?
Casiotone for the Painfully Alone.
The Richard Pryor box set and
a new windshield for Matilda,
Favourite record of 2003 and
my lovely Dodge Ram touring
why?
machine.
A Promise by Xiu Xiu because it
makes me feel like everything
Tofurkey or turducken?
is going to be terrible/just fine.
Turducken.
Runner up: anything Timbaland
touched.
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
Most memorable moment of
"Silent Night," as performed by
2003?
the church choir my mom sings
Playing in Tokyo and getting
in. Tears, tears, tears everytime.
flowers from Japanese boys.
New Year's resolution?
Worst moment ot 2003?
Send more postcards to my
Realization of my colossal debt.
grandpa.
and the realization that my
^yv^Vif^^
Old Tfhxc   fcefijufr
Q9LAA.of-ifr\j^,
Name?
Kombucha cultures to go on
Rives Elliot.
tour.
What do you do?
What do you want for Christmas?
Drummer (Old Time Reljun).
Custom-built fretless solid body
electric ukulele.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
Tofurkey or turducken?
1 seem to have quit purchasing
Don't really eat anything
music made after 2002, so 1
anymore....
cannot answer this question.
Favourite Christmas song and
Most memorable moment of
why?
2003?
Dr. Demento and Wild Man
Drinking anise brew with three
Fischer's "I'm a Christmas Tree."
witches in a makeshift coven in
1 like it because it sounds terrible.
Italy.
1 mean it's truly awful, 1 hate it.
Worst moment of 2003?
New Year's resolution?
When 1 had to compost my
Nothing at al.
A+AexaUs^.  22 What do you do?   -
Fuck about. Play records. Make
records. Eat ice cream.
Favourite record of 2003 and why?
The Rapture Echoes. It's better
than other records and I'll
like it later, when I'm hiding my
other records from this time in the
back of my closet.
Most memorable moment of
2003?
I got engaged.
Tofurkey or turducken?
Fuck all that shit. I would ike
Chilean sea bass.
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
Bing Crosby and David Bowie's
"Little Drummer Boy" or Vince
Guaraldi Trio's "Oh Tannenbaum,'
because they both remind me
of being a stupiddsgruntled kid
on Christmas when everyone
important to me was still aive.
New Year's resolution?
Finish my fucking record.
i
I
t
ift
*wti*m
Myhfcf». ■-
mMktS^..^   m
Hbkv mmm   »   j*   '    ■
lit%>
H^v
KjjjL.
-■iH*-
'*^s*?M*m^
gill HK   w-"^' "3
■V* <"%
•J-f.^i1*-
9||flBb        - "j
KrS^'
jjlgjlf
P^pSH
v»***u#».- &
/A
label.
Jonathan Galkin.
What do you do?
I run DFA records.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
The Hidden Cameras, because.
they are gay and Canadan.
and no one has ever heard of
them.
Worst moment of 2003?
Running out of money (before
receiving aforementioned huge
heap of dough).
What do you want for Christmas?
Another huge p\\e of dough.
Tofurkey or turducken?
Tofurkey!
*m0^   SmKmyCt*   f *tjc ^0%^€^%iAm^%i^^^^^
Most memorable moment of New year's resolution?
2003? Quit weed or smoke more
Meeting Morrissey. Or getting weed—I forget which.
a huge heap of dough for the
Name?
Colin Meloy
What do you do?
Sing in a band caled The Decemberists. Work at a bookstore.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
It's kind of difficult to say. Right
now, I'm pretty sold on The Shins'
Chutes too Narrow, but then
again, it's enjoying the benefit of
still being pretty fresh. And Why?
for indescribable reasons—main
evidence being that I cannot seem to get it out of my
cd player. Literally. The thing' s
jammed in there.
Most memorable moment of
2003?
Last Sunday, when I was curled
up on the couch with my girlfriend, sipping coffee, reading
The Times, and Istening to This
American Life. And our October
four—too many moments too
compress—enjoying our first-ever
sold out shows.
Won* moment of 2003?
Moving out my warehouse loft
into my new house five days
before leaving on a five week
tour, while my girlfriend was in
Montana, so I had to do most
of the moving by myself. In 90
degree weather (I think I could
be wrong there).
What do you want for Christmas?
A new presidential adminisfra-
Tofurkey or turducken?
Is there really something called
turducken? I can't seem to figure
out what it would be—imitation
duck? Eeech. Neither, thank
you very much. But I must say
I' ve been won over to fhe many
quafities of SoyDeldous Dairy
Free Ice Cream. That's amazing.
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
"Sflver Bels." Particularly John
Denver's version from Rocky
Mountain Christmas. Being the
heathen that I am, the non-
secular Christmas songs have
always creeped me outafttto
bit. Whenever I hear theiong
(and I insist on playing the
record every Christmas at home}
there's a buried part of me that
becomes uncovered and I begin
eyeing the presents under the
tree, secretly hodng for them to.
be Star Wars toys.
New Year's resolution?
To work less. And I really don't
work that much. To be even
more lazy than I already am.
<7&C*m, &<**, Video T°l<r° »>*-   *W $0f>et
Name?
Peeing on Matt "Nasty On"
Paul Malcatraz.
Lyons' hoode and then
watching him carry it around
What do you do?
with a bummed looked on his
Rock with Video Tokyo.
face.
Favourite Record ot 2003 and
What do you want for Christmas?
why?
Night-vision goggles.
Neil Michael Hagerty's The
Howling Hex cuz Neil defines
Tofurkey or turducken?
cool and the record is his best
Turducken.
in years.
Favourite Christmas song and
Most memorable moment of
why?
2003?
None—some are tolerable, most
Coming to the conclusion that
make me cringe.
Sasquatches really exist (one day
1 will laugh at you all).
New Year's resolution?
Stop procrastinating.
Name?
Benjamin D. Gibbard.
.  What do you do?
I sing and day guitar for Death
Cab for Cutie and The Postd
Service.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
The Long Winters, When I Pretend
to Fat. Never has a record been
so uplifting and depressing al at
the same time...
Most memorable moment of
2003?
Dancing Ike a lunatic in a bear
suit on stage for The Flaming
Lips with my lady and al the
DCFC and Sub Pop kids at the
Sasquatch festivd in May.
Worst moment of 2003?
On The Postal Service's brief tour
of Europe in June, being stuck
standng up in a ferry-waiting
room with roughly 1000 screaming, drunk, smoking Spanish
soccer fans for almost two hours.
I soon after got heatstroke and
spent the better half of the ferry
' ride throwing up.
What do you want tor Christmas?
To be left alone.
Tofurkey or turducken?
As I'm not familarwith the latter,
i'tt have to say tofurkey.
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
"Happy Christmas (War is Over)"
because it was written by John
Lennon.
New Year's resolution?
Find time to write music again....
L%
ety**»K   friU^'
Wont moment of 2003?
jjMP
Michelle Mae
Tofurkey or turducken?
If this refers to Thanksgiving, 1
s
What do you do?
definitely don't celebrate it, as it
«*
Long standing member of the
represents a heinous time period
music group: Weird War.
in the history of my ancestors
and American culture. However,
IllSliii
Favourite record of 2003 and
non-animal versions of the
why?
turkey are a great substitution.
^^
Micheal Macdonald, Motown—
Don't eat the turkeys. They live
nice, and smooth.
grotesque and stomach-curdling
Ives and go through the most
Most memorable moment of
disgusting slaughters to become
^.  f
2003?
un-needed food for celebration.
TSf
Being invited to play on the new
Nfc
Outkast album.
Favourite Christmas song and
•*"»
why?
Worst moment of 2003?
"Snoopy Versus The Red
%>&-
Not being able to play on the
Baron." It's a funny look into
w%
album due to injuring my hand
the dillusional mind of the WW1
%»*:
while being attacked by a wild
obsessed hound.
^^^
fan on a Weird War tour.
New year's resolution.?
^^^^»
What do you want tor Christmas?
Continuing the quest to become
A critter.
non-judgmental and patient.
Avey Tare (from The Animal
Collective).
What do you do?
Hop around New York City on
one leg and ask folks if they
wanna"DUNK THE
CLOWN."
Favourite Record of 2003 and
why?
Jaylib (Champion Sound)
because Madlib is the King Of
Electronic Production.
Most memorable moment of
2003?
So many, so many. But for al
my BC mates...breaking into
the school pool in Montreal with
BC/Montreal buds and swimming
late night stylet!)
Worst moment of 2003?
Any airdane ride. I hate them.
What do you want for Christmas?
A copy of Ganja and Hess on
VHS
Tofurkey or turducken?
Toe Fuckin'.
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
Beach Boys, "He's The Man with
All The Toys"—'cause he is.
New Year's resolution?
Keep gdng, keep going,
that's it.
i/U<9\Jj^X.   & J«** b^ckw^fk  M>mMi*} c*
Name?    'gipf£|J
Jack Duckworth.
What do you do?
Operate The Wax Museum
designs. Play in Rado Berin and
a luna red.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
kfJwf J>oyght al of 4-5 records in
2003 but there's so much good
stuff out there. So yeah—not sure
if I can answer that question.
Most memorable moment of
2003?
Driving miles and miles with
Daintyfoot, Inspector Funkus and
\ Hardpoach.
Worst moment of 2003?
Deaing with the "Disco Lemon"
(my old shaggin' wagon van).
What do you want for Christmas?
A sweet apartment to ive in.
Tofurkey or turducken?
Tofurkey for sure, espedally when
the effort Is made fo mold it into
a turkey-ike shape.
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
I think King Diamond's "No
Presents For Christmas" can't go
totally wrong....
New Year's resolution?
Chillax? Just a bit?
Worst moment of
'^^HLjIt^ .
Joel Gibb [Lead
2003?
singer of The Hidden
Slipping in poo.
Cameras].
What do you want for
What do you do?
Christmas?
Play Space Invaders
My hoop bleached.
(except with people).
Tofurkey or
Favourite Record of
turducken?
2003 and why?
Turkey sandwiches.
Justin Timberlake's
Justified, Les Mouches'
Favourite Christmas
Blood Orgy EP.
song and why?
"Jingle Balls." 1 don't
Most memourable
think 1 have to explain.
moment of 2003?
Dancing while
New Year's resolution?
wearing really long
To give up celibacy.
socks.
Ikt   f/tftfh,
ft*ft$ff&H*     *t$
3^***"
. L<ff#wi,A,i
««X0#V
- €**. M^C^t^\,
Krista Muir
What do you do?
Musical electronic cabaret
standup as my alter ego Lederhosen Lucil. Also hose couture-ist.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
Small Town Murder Scene by The
Fembots. It is dark, bright and
gives me shivers. Also it rocks.
Most memorable moment of
2003?
Rocking North America with my
friends Kid Koala, DJP Love and
DJ Jester.
Worst moment of 2003?
Getting food poisoning in
Portland and desecrating some
beautiful front lawns and driveways and then having to miss out
on a day off jn San Francisco.
What do you want for Christmas?
Socks, underwear and my two
front teef.
Tofurkey or turducken?
Milletkey or Speltkey please.
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
"We Three Kings." Its nice and
gothic and makes me want to
dress in black and light candles.
New Year's resolution?
Write more erotic novellas.
Name?
of "The Motherland" (house and
THE WPP.
practice space).
What do you do?
What do you want for Christmas?
1 play drums. 1 work at West Coast
What about hannuka? We want
Tools. We all work—it's kind of a
things that are not invented
bummer.
yet...soon though. Perhaps fine
sapphires and rare stones?
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
Tofurkey or turducken?
For me: Ted Leo/Pharmacists
Veal milkshake.
Hearts of Oak. The WPP picks the
Goidmember soundtrack..
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
Most memorable moment of
Elvis' "Blue Christmas." My little
2003?
brother loved "the Elvis" when he
Touring...and recording our 16-
was seven.
song record. It's our baby.
New Year's resolution?
Worst moment of 2003?
Do you party?
Not touring more. The closure
I Caw* bt«.\a
a/U^. Ike     Q-Msn*,   ff,
oS
Michael J. Roche.
What do you do?
I make an ass out of myself in
front of a band called The Gung-
Hos.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
A toss-up between The Riverboat
Gamblers' Something To Crow
About for it's sheer rockingness
and The Electric Six's Fire for it's
sheer addictive cheese....
Most memorable moment of
2003?
That's kind of an oxymoron when
it comes to me.
Worst moment of 2003?
I've put it behind me and we'll
never talk of it agdn.
What do you want for Christmas?
To be left alone.
Tofurkey or turducken?
Which has the higher tryptophan
dose?
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
GG Alln/AlgeAfterbirth:
"Christmas Song"—why not?!
New Year's resolution?
To quit kidding myself that
anything's gonna get better....
/ n-e    ^b%K%*YVlA**L*
Grant Lawrence.
What do you do?
Voice of The Smugglers, and co-
host CBC Radio 3 on Saturday
nights, 105.7FM.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
Randy's Welfare Problems
(Burning Heart). A truly awesome
collection of punk rock 'n' roll
songs. Runners up: Crooked
ringers. Hidden Cameras.
Most memorable moment of
2003?
The sunny Vancouver summer of
2003. Too bad about the forest
fires.
Worst Moment of 2003?
Having to flee Cuba on a
moments notice.
What do you want for Christmas?
A goaie bag with wheels.
Tofurkey or turducken?
You stupid vegan fuck.
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
"I Wish It Could Be Christmas
Everyday" by The Devil Dogs.
"LET THE BELLS RING OUT FOR
CHRISTMAS!!"
New Year's resolution?
Each year, go someplace in the
world that I have never been.
i-
1
Name?
Jay Millette/Black Halos.
What do you do?
I "do" all kinds of things. I play
guitar, drink, work, go on tour,
complain, laugh, sleep a lot.
That's about it.
Favourite Record of 2003 and
why?
Bazooka by the Star Spangles—I
think that came out in 2003. If
not, then I haven't got much of
answer here now do I? Why do I
Ike it? It's got some catchy songs
with some nifty guitar and some
nice scratchy vocals not unlike
Paul Westerberg. I ike that.
Most memorable moment of
2003?
Gdng to England with the
Spitfires and going to Spain
with the Black Halos. Although
"memorable" may not be such
a good word since there's a
couple of moments there where
my memory didn't work so good.
Wont moment of 2003?
When The Sdtfires called it quits.
It was very sad. But the sadness
ended a week later when the
Halos got back together and
I went to Spdn. Spdn is a very
nice place.
What do you want for Christmas?
To be invited to everybody's
Christmas party where there is
some sort of "open bar" gdng
on. Does Discorder have such a
party? Can I come??
Tofurkey or turducken?
Pizza.
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
I generaly don't Ike any
Christmas songs really...but if I
had to pick one i'd probady
say "Rudolph The Red Nosed
Reindeer" because it reminds
me of those shows'with the
animated puppet guys—and the
one with Rudolph when he runs
away and runs into the horrible
Yeti!!! Frightening stuff when
you're six years old.
New Year's resolution?
I NEVER make any resolutions
because I always break the
damn things. So really, what*s
fhe point?   ••$&J£tf4.
R°B0SLXUA
is
Shawn Bristow.
What do you do?
I play bass, guitar and sing for
the ROBOSEXUALS. For a living I
press buttons.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
Led Zeppein II because it has
"Whole Lotta Love" on it. Oh
wgit! What year is ft agdn?
Most memorable moment of
2003?
I assume you are talking about
world events. In that case,
hearing about Roy getting
attacked by that Tiger. The day
that changed the face of Lion
taming forever.
Wont moment of 2003?
It's a tie between the invasion of
Iraq and the "circus circus" arrest
of Micheal Jackson. That'I be a
fair and proper trial. The U.S. is a
very strange land indeed.
What do you want for Christmas?
A bed. I've been steeping on a
foamy for far too long.
Tofurkey or turducken?
Turd Jerky (Salted, dried turds.
Yum)..
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
"Father Christmas" by The tanks.
A fine proto-punk song about
some poor Englsh kids wanting
to mug Santa I Hee it because it's
not "Grandma Got Ran Over By
a Reindeer."
New Year's resolution?
To eat more red meat and start
smoking.
4,v*e*\eU>\  2b fix* *N*sfy Oh,
Name?
what I'm ddng with my life...and
Jason Grimmer.
quick...cuz i'm having a kid.
What do you do?
What do you want for Christmas?
Drink And sing with The Nasty On.
12 Stellas, a fine scotch, a beard
comb and some pipe tobacco.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
Tofurkey or turducken?
The Howling Hex, introducing...
Turfey! No...furkey!
cuz it's Neil Hagerty and he
always makes it onto my year
Favourite Christmas song and
end list. This year 1 had two to
why?
pick from.             iSil|j||||'-
"A Sailor's Christmas lament in
Gay Minor" aka "The 'Is That a
Most memorable moment of
Bearded Merman?' Song" by
2003?
Foreigner with Jay-Z featuring
Finding out I'm having a kid.
Mike Reno and I'il crab.
Worst moment of 2003?
New Year's resolution?
Realizing 1 have to figure out
Fuck it, i quit drinking.
Catety* W\a*h
Name?
2003?
Carolyn Mark.
"Wha' Happened?"
#
What do you do?
Worst moment of 2003?
fvc4
Entertainer. '
Checking the wallet upon
returning from our American tour
^^
Favourite record of 2003 and
in September.
why?
Name?
I've decided I'm too distracted
What do you want for Christmas?
CC Rose.
Worst moment of 2003?
to like entire albums. However, in
A phone card.
Ms.T's burning down.
order, the best PARTS of records
What do you do?
of 2003 according to me: First
Tofurkey or turducken?
Drummer of The Cinch:
What do you want for Christmas?
three songs of The Buttless Chaps'
Just stuffing and sprouts for me.
A new Ms.T's.
Love This Time; the early middle
Favourite record of 2003 and
part of Oh Susanna's new album;
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
Tofurkey or turducken?
the first third of Kate Fenner's
why?
The Mars Volta, De-toused
Just load me up on roasted
new record; "1 was Born"—the
"Good King Wenceslas" because
Af The Comaforium—it's
garlic mashed potatoes.
'theme song' on The Unicorns
it mentions feasting, has creepy
astoundingly beautiful, relentless.
record; "Whisky Hellcat"—a
minor chords and makes no
heavycatastrophic-sounding;
Favourite Christmas song and
song by the Fine Options; "Your
sense.
a modern-age Dark Side of fhe
why?
Element"—a song by Chet; "One
Moon.
"Jesus Never Gave Me Any
in Five"—the first song on Frog
New Year's resolution?
Presents" by Satan and the
Eyes' new record; a good deal
1. To "party" at sundown with
Most memorable moment of
Santas, the reason is obvious.
of Tom Holliston's 'earlier, funnier
Joel Plaskett, Corby Lund, Robert
2003?
material'; and everytime they go
Dayton and some of the Buttless
The Nasty On at The Pic when
New Year's resolution?
'ba bababum ba" on the new
Chaps at the Edmonton Folk
Jason had the whole bar
Drink and smoke more, it's the
Young and Sexy record. Excuse
Festival.
chanting "Fuck you" to the
latest fad.
me 1 gotta go make a mixed
2. When 1 get my phone card
asshole bartender.
tape.
to use it instead of being fully
reamed by Telus every time 1
Most memorable moment of
charge to my home number.
jke     \f~au^
Name?
Coco Culbertson.
What do you want for Christmas?
Panties, stilettos...and a new
What do you do?
fence.
Please Kurt and Levon...oh yah
and The Gay.   -y-^jiW „,
Tofurkey or turducken?
Turducken...of course.
Favourite Record of 2003 and
why?
Favourite Christmas song and
Jerk With A Bomb, Pyrokinesis,
why?
and Outkast. Why? Drives the
Anything by The Christ
lesbian team wild.
Killers... espedally
Penis in...why? The titles speak for
Most memorable moment of
themselves.
2003?
Getting Bubbles.
New Year's resolution?
More dogs, less people.
Worst Moment of 2003?
There wasn't one.
jiUcerfn, & ** */v>   * 7 Name?
Todd Drootin, Books on Tape.
What dO you do?
Samdes and sequencing for
Books on Tape, production and
remixing for others.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
Cursive's The Ugty Organ,
because it is a concept album
within a concept album without
being one bit pretentious.
Songwriter Tim Kasher is the finest
America has to offer right now.
Cellos, samplers and organ on a
post-hardcore record. Briliant!
2003?
Three-day tour with Cursive,
No Knife and Appleseed Cast.
Kasher, an Omaha native, sees
an In'N'Out fast food restaurant
(specific to the West Coast)
and takes a ten-person van
with a trailer full of gear across
four lanes of treacherous L.A.
highway with no warning.
Grasping to my chair, I see eight
people rolling their eyes, saying
"He must have seen an In 'N'Out"
and correct they were.
Worst moment of 2003?
Dealing with being a citizen of a
country that was the aggressor
in an unnecessary war/Dealing
with being a Jew when Israel is
acting even scarier than Bush.
What do you want for Christmas?
A new US president in time for
the next one.
Tofurkey or turducken?
Tofurkey all the way.
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
"Chrismas In Hollis," Run DMC.
Because when you D J, this one
gets EVERY set of hands in the
air. Best find from my childhood
record collection.
New Year's resolution?
To get out of the States more. I
haven't been out of the US since
September '02.
4:
1
m
<4
Name?
Denny Hofway (Dennis H.
Driscoll).
What do you do?
Lay down melodic songs (K
recording artist), draw cartoons
and go to parties in Omaha,
Nebraska, at Chris Fisher's house.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
The Original Motion Picture
Soundtrack to Aki Kaurismaki's
film The Man Without a Past. It
deals with homelessness (the
movie) and the songs are very
nice. I like the bands Marko
Haavisto and Poutahaukat + the
Renegades quite much. I believe
that they are very splendid
indeed and for several different
reasons too!
Most memorable moment of
2003?
Breaking up with my girlfriend
around the time that Heck Fest
happened in Anacortes and
feeing very sad and alone.
Worst moment of 2003?
When I realized that Elliott Smith
was gone. He was an amazing
songwriter because his songs
were akin to The Beatles and
The Kinks but he was our peer.
Back in '971 picked up the 45
with "Angeles" on it in Olympia,
WA, at this record store on
4th avenue, took it home to
Astoria, OR, listened to it and
was astounded by how cool it
sounded. It changed my life and
helped me so much.
What do you want for Christmas?
A warm blanket and a bowl of
spaghetti.
Tofurkey or turducken?
Tofurkey and Soynog to boot!
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
"Run Run Rudolph" by Chuck
Berry. Cuz he rawks!
New Year's resolution?
To really appreciate someone
when I'm dating them and be as
happy as I can in a relationship.
Name?
Tomas Jirku.
What do you do?
I make music.
Favourite Record of 2003 and
why?
Richardo Villalobos' Alcachofa
album restored the faith I had
long lost in minimal techno.
Most memorable moment of
2003?
Too much of this past year has
been incredibly memorable, but
the best moment would have to
be when I realized I can now call
Vancouver my home.
Worst moment of 2003?
Easily the worst was leaving my
friends and family behind in
Toronto.
What do you want for Christmas? ]
Final Scratch...and world peace, j
of course!
Tofurkey or turducken?
They both sound questionable.
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
"Cobra Christmas Party" by
G.I.Joe Kiliaz captures the joyful   j
atmosphere of Christmas time
better than any other song!
New Year's resolution?
I'll just keep iving like I've always
been living...It hasn't failed
me yet!
JU«.c&\dje^.  28 X UUw»<.
Nome?
night through my open bedroom
PhH Elvrum.
window." This probably isn't the
MOST memorade moment.
What do you do?
though. It has been a huge year.
Come and go.
1 can't pck.
■■■iB
I Favourite Record of 2003 and
why?
I Magnolia Electric Co. (Songs:
| Ohia thing). Is that from this
I year? I can listen to it over and
over and keep hearing new
things. I like it.
Most memorable moment of
2003?
Last night at 4:45pm in the dying
I light my brother and I stood in
I the woods listening to four owls
i in the trees hooting to each
I other, all echoey. There were
I other sounds: an airplane, a
| slumber party of teenage girls,
| the hum of machinery from the
s refinery, etc...but they were
1 all overwhelmed by the rich
I echoing owl hoots close above
I us on all sides. I turned around
I and my dother was gone. Twin
I Peaks style. A tiny drd fell from
* above and landed at my feet
and tweeted and fluttered
around in the rotting leaves. The
owls continued. Later I came
. inside and my dad said, "Yeah I
was listening to them all night last
Worst moment of 2003?
I can't pck. I was in traffic on
1-5 at Everett the other day and
- asking "Why should we even
keep on being dive? Why don't
we just stop breathing? This is the
worst worst feeing any human
could ever fee^ in fhe history of
- feeing. Why don't we all just pull
over and end our lives?"
What do you want for Christmas?
Seriously? A good tent and two
good sleeping bags that can
zip into each other for camping
cuddlers.
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
Hymn for Christmas Day by G.I.
Gurdjieff/Thomas DeHartmann
because I don't already know
how it goes without listening to it.
New Year's resolution? "Shut up
Name?
Jamie (Hjamiegh from Xiu Xiu).
What do you do?
I like to pdnt, pointing and looking
and fittte glancing and getting
glancing dows.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
The entire catalogue of Free
Porcupine Society records
because all of them took and feel
like free and red hearts.
Most memorable moment of
2003?
Telling an exotic dancer that I am
gay and having her tell me she
was gonna "suck me sfrdght."
Worst moment of 2003?
Oeding with my dad dying.
What do you want for Christmas?
A trip to Iran or Iraq or North Korea
while they still exist.
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
"Silent Night"—it is actually
beautiful qnd makes me think of
Jesus and my family.
{J'/a4     |,AnVl»i^|^
Bill Callahan.
What do you do?
Smog.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
Microphones' The Glow Part 2.. I
probably came out in 2002.
Name?
Adam Forkner aka White
Rainbow aka [[[[VVRSSNN]]]]/
Soft Dolphin/Yarn Lazer/Surface
of Eceon/Yume Bitsu.
What do you do?
Make music under fhe various
names given above, make
vibe spaces, produce bands,
support fellow artists.
Favourite record of 2003 and
why?
Best electronic record: Lucky
Dragons, Dark Falcon (555
records)—deep electronic
glitching of frail beautiful
bedroom whispers.
Best rap album: OutKast,
Speakerboxxx/The Love Below.
The Love Below is the awesomest
heartfelt love record I've heard
in a long while.
Most memorable moment of
2003?
Doing cover of "Higher" by Sly
and the Family Stone with all
my buddies (Franz Pilchard, Phil
Elvrum, Jona Bechtdt, Adrien
Orange, Steve Schroeder,
Dimitri, Ryan, Rob Keiswetter)
as the closing act at What the
Heck Festival, Anacortes, this
r. Or organizing and..
playing The Dolphin Festival at
the new amazing Holocene club
in Portland later this summer
with Bobby Birdman, YACHT,
Yume Bitsu, Rob Walmart, Cherry
Blossoms, Atlantian Waves, Soft
Dolphin [[[[VVRSSNN]]]].
Worst moment of 2003?
Playing to three very stoned
people in a house in Baltimore,
MD, on tour with Dave Longstreth
aka The Dirty Projectors.
What do you want for Christmas?
- Powerbook or ibook
- A place to live
- A new car
- Peace on earth
Tofurkey or turducken?
What? How about TURKEY?
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
The entire Ray Conniff Christmas
album. The reverbed choir is so
joly and warm and awesome
it makes me think of Christmas.
New Year's resolution?
Follow in the footsteps of Jay-Z
and Timbaland and retire from
the music business.
Most memorable moment of
2003?
Sipped my nephew a few dlls, he
said, "We'll remember this!"
Worst moment of 2003?
Tofurkey or turducken?
father one could get you to go to
the other side.
Favourite Christmas song and
why?
"Joy to the World." It sounds
made up.
New Year's resolution?
4 usually don't make any till mid-
February.
Closing note: Just m case you were
wondering turducken b a deboned
chicken stuffed Inside a deboned duck,
which h in turn stuffed Inside a deboned
turkey. It's fhe latest culinary craze
forthe holidays. Merry Christmas from
DiSCORDER. fhe Martha Stewart of Music
Magazines. fh*, o&vt  Ath«fn*L *f 200%
It's awesome to hear a band
do 60s R&B so well that it could
easily have been outtakes from
the Nuggets sessions and no
one would notice. Well, I did,
and so should you.
Bryce Dunn
wildly mad.
Merek Cooper
Aesop Rock
Bazooka Tooth
(Def Jux)
When you release an album as
holy-good-goddamn amazing
as Labour Days, you've got a lot
to live up to. The pressure seems
to have gotten to Aesop Rock.
Where he once turned out
endless successions of quotable
rhymes over Blockhead's funky,
fist-raising beats, he now twists
himself into knots over beats
of his own so jaw-droppingly
convoluted you'll need a
corkscrew to pull your head out
of the speakers. Ace is a little
more antagonistic these days,
so If you plan on telling him
what an incredible genius he
still is, get ready to duck.
saelan
The Animal Collective
Here Comes the Indian
(Paw Tracks)
It's not very often that an album
of such sparkling brilliance
comes along. Add to that the
fact that it was recorded by
characters from The Lord of
the Flies the night after they
found crates washed up from
the wreck of a ship ferrying
The Grateful Dead's rider and
equipment to a gig in the South
Seas. A tape player rolled while
the feral children cracked
open and ingested the salty
barrels of industrid strength
LSD, and set about banging
the drums and screaming into
the sandy mics. One young
rascal even managed to
boot up a computer, plug it
into a soundboard and start
manipulating the cacophony
of sounds in Cool Edit Pro.
The tapes were eventually
discovered when Horacio
P. Hornblower rescued four
malnourished teenagers from
the island two years ago. Hats
off to Carpark Records who
had the audacity to front the
money to release this document
of innocent freedom gone so
Belle and/ Sebastian
Dear Catastrophe Waitress
(Rough Trade)
Alright,! know you love Belle
and Sebastian. You love them ;
so much that you can't stand to
see them change. I love them,
too, but I know that nothing
lasts forever, and you've got
to admit that their last couple
outings were a bit weak. With
Dear Catastrophe Waitress,
Stuart Murdoch and his gang
have faced up to their lives
and gotten a ittle happier
(and a little sadder), and while
the results are certainly less
than sinister, there's some truly
fantastic songs here. Maybe
I'm just too much of a fan, but
I'll forgive any amount of 70s
soft-rock bugglegum for one
"Piazza, New York Catcher." I'm
back in bed with this band and
just happy to be waking up to
us agdn.
boy, or whatever he's taken
to calling himself these days,
has successfully wrestled the
beard from the evil clutches of
geography teachers and old
world explorers and it is now
free to be worn by those of us
under the ago of thirty-five.
There he is, proud as punch,
sporting the thing on the cover
of this album. These days, you
can't swing a vegan enchilada
at the (Sugar Refinery) without
hitting a young pretender
sporting a mighty soup-straining
face-hugger or hair scarf. And
hurrah for that! I'm so jealous:
Unlike this album, which delivers.
op every thrack, mine's really
patchy.
Merek Cooper
The Blood Brothers
Sunt Piano Island, Bum
(BMG)
Seeing this Seattle hardcore
outfit live earlier this year
affirmed my belief in the future
of the genre: these guys are
poised to turn it on its collective
head and twist, contort and
mangle it until it doesn't sound
like hardcore anymore. This
album is the first step to their
master ptan.
Bryce Dunn
Bonnie Prince Billy
Master and Everyone
(Drag City)
I'm all for giving credit where
credit's due and if there's
one thing that Will Oldham
has done apart from make a
long succession of wonderful
albums, it's make the beard
cool again. Though it was hard
adna at first, vouna Will, bonnie
(Thrush Hermit fans, form a line
on the left, Sloan fans on the
right, please.) But they did and
they have and we love 'em to
bits. It was a little bit Dinosaur
Jr., a little bit Sonic Youth, and
a little bit Jeff Buckley, and
by buggary did people buy it.
Their success was thanks in no
small part to a wonderful video
for the gently chuggin' "Stars
and Sons" and the fact that no
one could believe that anyone
who used to be involved in
Treblecharger could participate
in the making of a decent
album. On a sadder note, the
R.C.M.P. are now investigating
how a good song was allowed
to be played on MuchMusic.
"It was disgusting, and in broad
daylight too," a spokesperson
for the station was heard to say.
Merek Cooper
Constantines
Shine a light
(Three Gut Records)
A new organ player and
former lyrical angst multiplied
exponentially makes this album
fantastic. The favorite band of
London and Guelph, Ontario,
The Constantines have brilliantly
captured the intensity of their
live show for Shine a Light, and
they've given Sub Pop a reason
forwanling to share them with
the US.
Kimberley Day
The Books
The Lemon of Pink
(Tomlab)
With their sophomore album.
The Books have expanded on
everything that made their
debut so charming and so
utterly uncategorizable. Their
own vocals (a welcome new
addition) get chopped up
along with acoustic guitar, cello
and a million found sounds to
create songs that are fuller
and more developed than
those on Thought for Food. The
Books manage to be glitchy,
bluesy and experimental at the
same time, while maintaining a
sense of humour, warmth and
humanity that makes them
more interesting than just about
anyone else I can think of. This
is the feel-good album of the
year.
saelan
Broken Social Scene
You Forgot It In People
(Paper Bag/Arts and Crafts)
The Scene! The BSSI! The what?!!
Who'd have thunk if this time
last year that a loosely affiliated .
group of plumbers from Toronto
could come out with the world's
best Canadian album ever?
Cat Power
You Are Free
(Matador)
Despite the fact that she
released one of the best albums
in 2003, apparently Chan
Marshall still lives alone in a
house full of cats with an alarm
clock that rings five times a day
to tell her when to cry. She is
notoriously reclusive and has
been known to call the police
when the postman "invades"
her property to give her a
letter from her only friend Bill
CWIahan, who she no longer
fucks. Songs like "He War" and
"I Don't Blame You" express
her specific pain but you don't
have to live in a house of cats •
or have had sexual relations
with "the nastiest-man in music"
to enjoy this album. You could
just be a little down in the
mouth.
Merek Cooper
The Chains
On Top of Thlngsl
(Get Hip)
Why are so many good bands
coming from la belle province!?
The Deadly Snakes
Ode to Joy
(In the Red)
Another hit from the Toronto
wrecking crew. Paying
allegiance to none, but still
loved by many, this is the rock .
androl gospel that any church
service would be glad'to play to
wash the Sunday blues away.
Bryce Dunn
Deerhoof
Apple O
(5 Rue Christine)
Kinda like Blonde Redhead
with training wheels, Deerhoof
ride their rickety bike down
almost every avenue of sound •
they can find. Sure, they hit
the curb a few times and even    .
manage the odd ungraceful
dismount, but they never run
crying to their mommies. Satomi
MatsuzOki's voice candy-coats
even the most incongruous
backing into a wonderful
journey. The fact that this record
is more commercial than its
predecessors has led some
people to write it off. Don't
you believe them—this is a
wonderful album and catchy
as all hell.
Merek Cooper
The Dirtbombs
Dangerous Magical Noise
(In the Red)
The highly anticipated third
installment from the Detroit
party machine sees a nice mix
between the sassy garage feel
of Horndog Fest and the soul
tribute of Ultraglide In Black. This
is a band that's able to jump
through genres with ease and
understand that in fhe end it's
all about the beat that moves
the feet.
Bryce Dunn
The Decemberists
Her Majesty...
(Kill Rock Stan)
During the production period
of the October DiSCORDER we
Istened to this album on repeat
for two days. Consequently, the
whole team here has shards
of this album's brilliant beauty
lodged in our brains for ever
more. A baroque masterpiece
from Coin Meloy and his band
of Dickensian dreamers. Your
majesty, may I present...one of
the best albums of the year.
Merek Cooper
Electric Six
Fire
(XL Recordings)
I laughed my ass off when I saw
the video for "Gay Bar," and
"Danger! High Voltage" would
prove to be the surprise dancefloor hit Andrew WK wishes he'd
written. If you're not convinced,
I dare you not to shake it to
"Dance Commander" or
"Improper Dancing"—it's
aaraae-disco anyone can make up "The River," including
The Metic's Darcy Hancock on
guitar.
Kimberley Day
Erase Errata
Af Crystal Palace
(Troubleman Unlimited)
The San Francisco band Erase
Errata has successfully created
an album that can be equated
to heroin abuse. You know it's
not good for you, the total
experience blazes by in no time
at all, you know that nothing
positive can come out of you
listening to it, but you just...
can't...stop.
Kimberley Day
r**
«—*
Four Tet
Rounds
(Domino)
Proof that Kieran Hebden has   ■
cornered the market in pastoral
folktronica and actually won
over the masses could be found
this year, when at his Sonar
show I think I may have seen
someone in the middle of the
crowd nod their head. It was
very quick and I can't be sure
but I think there was movement.
And at a Vancouver show!
Can you believe it? Mr Hebden
must be really good. Actually,
now that I replay the scenario
over in my mind I think the guy
may have just been bending
his head to remove a dastardly
THC-infused bugger. Yeah, that
was probably it.
Merek Cooper
it made four generations of
DiSCORDER editors get down
and shimmy. Whoa, wild times.
Anyway, this album is awesome
and you should already own it.
They're from the South and they
sound like it. Beth Ditto wails
like a southern gothic banshee
while Brace summons down
great big sheets of fuzzed-
up riffery from the sky. And
Kathy? She does what all great
drummers do, she hits those
bloody drums. Stunning stuff.
Make them famous, right now.
Merek Cooper
in comparison to Jeffrey's
deadpan genius, I'd look shit.
Instead I'll just tell you about
the best song on this album
and how it tells the story of
how Jeffrey, when touring his
previous record, was accosted
by thousands of acidheads
trying to give him free blotters,
microdots or what have you. It's
called "No LSD Tonite" and it's
the funniest song of the year.
You should buy it. Oh yeah, he
draws comics too.
Merek Cooper
Jeffrey Lewis
*in
Exploding Hearts
Guitar Romantic
(Dirtnap Records)
I'm cheating a bit with this one.
A ppwer pop masterpiece of
the first order, the LP version
was released a good six months
before the CD dropped in
March of this year. The second I
heard the first notes of "Modern
„ Kicks," I smiled and thought,
"This band gets it." I'm still
smiling even though a senseless
tragedy took the band away
from us, and the mark left
behind by this amazing group
will be talked about in punk
rock circles for years to come.
Bryce Dunn
Holopaw
s/t
(Sub Pop)
Coming hotfoot on the heels
of Ugly Casanova's Sharpen
Your Teeth, expectation for this
album was great. I knew that
Holopaw lead singer John Orth
had worked with Isaak Brock on
that album and I was expecting
great things. To their credit
they didn't disappoint. Country
played the way it should be,
one eye on the past with an ear
towards-the future.
Merek Cooper
Jon-Rae Fletcher and the River
The Road
(Hive-Fi Recordings)
With this album, Jon-Rae
Fletcher musically explains
why he had to move across
the country and leave all of us
behind. Jon-Rae delivers an
album that is a spectacular
blend of alternative country,
indie rock, fdk music and
gospel, with the help of a few...
okay, eight other musicians who
Frog Eyes
The Golden River
(Global Symphonic)
The best "Ike it or don't" release
since Pere Ubu's "The Modern
Dance." Check out the wife-
beater shirt on the lead singer
when you go see them live.
Half the room usually leaves;
the other half are enraptured.
Which side are you on?
Luke Meat
3i
The Gossip
Movement
(Kill Rock Stan)
We at DiSCORDER love The
Gossip. Lave 'em and can't
get enough. I even friendstered
Brace Paine, but he's too
scared to friend me back. I
remember their gig at the Royal
in the summer, it was so good
John Ford
Bullets For Dreamers
(Bumstead Recordings)
Gotta include at least one
local combo here and these
guys put together a pretty nice
package of Flaming Groovies-
meets-Replacements rock and
roll and their live show gets
stronger each time I see 'em.
With only a handful of good
bands in Vancouver right now,
IMHO, more reason to support
homegrown talent.
Bryce Dunn
Jeffrey Lewis
It's the Ones Who've Cracked
that the Light Shines Through
(Rough Trade)
Jeffrey Lewis made one of my
favourite records of 2002. It was
called The Last Time I Did Acid
I went Insane. It contained a
song called "Chelsea Hotel
Oral Sex Song." Despite the
fact that it got a bit lost in the
anti-folk backlash, it was the
shit. I normally try to be funny
when writing these things but
Lightning Bolt
Wonderful Rainbow
(Load Records)
Let's face it, someone needed
to tear music a new asshole,
we just didn't expect it to be
two dokes from Providence,
Rhode Island, named Brian. Like
the Horseman of Apocalypse
riding two men ight, Messrs
Chippendale and Gibson
Charged out at the forefront
of Load Records formidable
output this year, taking names
and kicking ass. Wonderful
Rainbow chops off your head
and shits down your neck,
takes a break and then does
it all over again. Album of the
year, no question. I once asked
DiSCORDER's secret weapon
Saelan Twerdy what it was like
to see them Ive—they always
set up in the midde of the
crowd—al he could sdd was:
"Cathartic." Yeah, I'll bet.
Merek Cooper
Up In Flames
(Leaf/Domino)
This album no longer seems
quite as mind-expanding as
it did when I first heard it, but
the massive leap Dan Snaith
made from the Boards-of-
Canada-isms of his first album
to the whooshing psychedelic
space-pop of Up In Flames
is still amazing. With blissful,
wide-eyed enthusiasm, this
album stacks layer upon
layer of pure ear candy in
classic shoegazing splendor. A
seemingly unlimited number of
instruments pile atop cascading
breakbeats in expansions and
contractions that sound more
like ecstatic exhalations than
verses and choruses—and the
most exciting part is that Snaith
claims his next album will be
even better.
saelan
The Mars Volta
De-loused in the Comatorium
(Sfrummer/Universal)
The high hopes set by this
band's Tremulant EP dissolved
into a lot of head-and-chin-
scratching when I finally got
my greedy hands on this
shamelessly pretentious disc
of prog-punk wankery, and to
tell you the truth, I still haven't
figured it out. Rick Rubin's
heavy-handed production
makes these already-
complicated songs a little
headache-inducing, but there's
just no denying the greatness of
an album that can make Rush
and Santana sound appealing
to die-hard Fugazi fans.
saelan
13
The Microphones
Mf. Eerie
(k)
This cryptic epic was so
overwhelmingly ambitious
that Phil Elvrum had to stop
performing as The Microphones |
and start performing as Mount
Eerie after he finished it. As the
culmination of everything the
Northwest's most profound
and poetic voice has worked
with in his underappreciated
career, Mt. Eerie stretches
lo-fi magnificence to its
absolute imits: toms, snares
and nylon-stringed guitar ,
conjure apparitions of such
breathtaking elemental power
that Istening to it more than
once a month could frighten
you into catatonia.
saelan
Continues next page...
: Khe.      *
{(sugar ffifoeryj
SUdrag
' ftratela   '
hpwseJ Wm
0^rieraUN»\
^%ori]fttykr)
i*k ix^sVtYia
J0ConV
|5 Parallela
f%CrvWer
d®Dav.a.P-S«.iK»
2| booKS
Wfdtdkk
m) cus£d mil
ft S.T.R.E.E.T.D.A.D.
(Kranky)
While everybody was too busy
shitting themselves over the
Rapture, Out Hud slipped in
unnoticed and made a slithery
dance-punk album so funky it
matjsg^me nauseous. As good
as this album is, though, it can't
express what'lifrtejeredible live
show this band|Krts-on. When
their next album hits in Spring
2004, you damn well better get
your funkless white ass over
to the record store if you ever
want to learn how to shake it.
saelan
Joel Plaskett Emergency
Truthfully. Truthfully
(MapleMusic)
It's as simple as this: If you love
Thrush Hermit, you'll really like
Truthfully. Truthfully. If you like
Thrush Hermit, you wil most
likely enjoy Truthfully. Truthfully.
If you sort of like Thrush Hermit,
there is a chance that you
will be able to appreciate
Truthfully, Truthfully. If you
hate Thrush Hermit, then you
shouldn't be reading this.
Kimberley Day
Polysics
Neu
(Asian Man Records)
The Polysics' previous release
"Hey! Bob! My Friend!"
received my vote for best
dbum title of all time until
"Neu." I mean, that's some
pretty hip stuff to live up to.
Have no fear, Krautrock fans:
These Japanese technoids pull
it of with wonderful panache
and style. It's like listening to
RADIO BERLIN » SISTER SOUNDS » LP/CD
After two yean In the making and many setbacks
in its release, this recent offering from Vancouver's
enigmatic RADIO BERLIN is a re-interpretation of
material previously released on their first two
albums, THE SELECTION DRONE and .SIBLING. Three of
the tracks are reworkings of material by the band
with the help of members of THE RED UGHT STING
and 3ERK with A bomb while the other four tracks
contain remixes by friends from HOT HOT HEAT,
BEAUTIFUL SKIN, THE EPIDEMIC, and P:ANO.
cwoi6 FUCK ME USA » TBA » CD-EP [COMING 20041]
cwois HAPPY KRETER » PARADIGM LOST » CD
cwois FROG EYES » THE GOLDEN RIVER » CD
CW012 S.T.R.E.E.T.S » BO BO GNAR GNAR » LP/CD
cwoii THE ORGAN » SINKING HEARTS » CD-EP
cwoio A LUNA RED / GHOST ORCHIDS »12"
These releases and more available at
www.globalsymphonic.com
t
ob^ca) aUs^   2 2.
Devo before the swiffering.
Luke Meat.
wiiisKE
The Postal Service
Give Up
(Sub Pop)
Simply put: the best record fhe
Pet Shop Boys never made.
Play it when you want to do
something you've put off for a
while, like laundry or clipping
your toenails or masturbating.
Luke Meat
Prefuse 73
One Word Extinguisher
(Warp)
Yet another stunning
sophomore album in a year
of great ones, Scott Herren's
glitch-hop perfection achieves
a level of emotional depth
not even hinted at on his
debut. One Word Extinguisher
is possibly the most technically
impressive album of 2003, even
more so in light of the album
of outtakes released just a few
months later, making Prefuse
not only the most impressive
producer to put out wax this
year, but also the most prolific.
This shit is so next level that
nobody is going to catch up
for years, and after literally
hundreds of listens, this album
shows no signs of getting old.
saelan
Rachel's
Systems /Layers
(Touch and Go)
While bands like God Speed
You! Black-Ribbed Knobbler
and Do Make Say Wank have
released albums that tasted like
poo in recent times, Rachel's
for some reason still manage
to cut the mustard. Well, they
obviously haven't read the
scriot: cost rock is dead and
will not be resurrected for
another ten years when spotty
teenagers will dress like out-of-
work carpenters and claim to
have been into Slint all along.
Fitting enough, then, that this
album seems completely out
of time because it must have
been recorded in a salon in
Paris at the turn of the century.
Merek Cooper
blurred and I woke up in a
gutter in the West End. When I
scraped the crud from my eyes
and returned home, this record
didn't actually seem so bad.
I could overlook the blatant
Robert Smith rippery and I even
started to enjoy the tinny beats
of their drummachines. I'm
never going out again.
Merek Cooper
coming back for more. And
like alt naughty boys and girls
the music doesn't stay still for a
minute, exploding a hardcore
cherrybomb in the toilet of
every song. Straight to the
top of the class by way of the
principal's office.
Merek Cooper
Radiohead
Hall to the Thief
(Capitol)
When Thorn Yorke bounded on
stage toward the end of REM's
late August Vancouver show,
he woke up 2000 slumbering
punters. Aside from many
thirty-somethings who quickly
returned to their nap when
they realised it wasn't Phil
Collins, the rest of the crowd
could only stand there in rapt
amazement. Thorn said '"ello."
The crowd screamed. Thorn
sang backup on "E-bow the
Letter." The crowd swooned.
Thorn murdered a guitar during
"It's the End of the World
(as We Know It)." The crowd
still loved it. Proof, then, that
the unmerry gentleman and
his band of dour university
lecturers can do no wrong
these days. Certainly Hail to the
Thief was a welcome return to
form after the self-pastiche of
Amnesiac and for that we're all
thankful. Long may they reign
on the world's parade.
Merek Cooper
Riverboat Gamblers
Something to Crow About
(Gearhead Records)
Drop the needle and run for
your fucking life-Mhis album
is not for the weak-minded or
the young. From start to finish,
rock and roll never sounded
this lethal. When they yell "You
got the rhythm but you got no
soul," these are bragging rights
that all bands like them only
hope to swear by.
Bryce Dunn
The Rapture
Echoes
(DFA)
Whoa. I was so ready to pan
this record all the way back to
Williamsburg, Brooklyn, but then
I spent every night this week
grinding my pelvis in every type
of shitty indie disco I could
find. And do you know what I
found sandwiched between Le
Tigre and tongue-in-cheek 50
Cent remixes? "The House of
Jealous Bloody Lovers." Christ,
that song gets more spins than
an empty bottle at a preteen
sleepover. After that it's all
frKl
The Shins
Chutes Too Narrow
(Sub Pop)
There are a few bitter folks out
there who would felt you that
this album isn't perfect. Let
me be the first to tell you that
they're absolutely wrong. Pop
music in 2003 simply does not
get any better than this. Even
better than their much-hyped
debut. Chutes Too Narrow sees
James Mercer's songwriting
reach a level of melodic
sophistication, inventiveness
and originality that was hinted
at before, but now emerges
in all its anthemic glory. This
album's only flaw is that it only
lasts half an hour. •
saelan
The Sick Lipstick
Sting Sting Sting
(Tigerstyle)
Like a naughty child about
to "wedgie" his 86-year-old
grandmother. The Sick Lipstick
know a thing or too about
shock value. Lead Singer, Lisa
Gillard has the cutest voice
but it says the dirtiest things.
"Pretend I'm Sleeping" will
make you blush. But you'll keep
(Thrill Jockey)
While I feel sure that Markus
Popp's days pioneering a
completely new sound are
over—let's face it, every
geek with a crippling social
dysfunction and a stain on his
pants is glitching the shit out
of their laptop as you read
this—if he continues to make
albums as subtly beautiful as
this, no one's gonna complain.
This record is actually a
collaboration; Eriko Toyoda
writes the songs with her
acoustic guitar while Markus
does what Markus does best,
washing them in a warm fuzz
till they feel as comfortable as
your favourite pair of jeans. Slip
'em on.
Merek Cooper
The Strokes
Room on Fire
(RCA)
Strip away the hype and the
overblown expectancy and
what do you have? A pretty
decent album, really. "I wanna
be forgotton," screams Julian
at the top of the album. Not a
chance, mate. Keep on making
albums like this and they'll keep
you here forever. Though for the
next album, may DiSCORDER
suggest tons of psychedelics, a
shadowy new age guru figure,
a Himalayan mountain retreat and a fondness for cheesecloth
underpants? Well, if they are
going to be the new Beatles,
the clock is ticking.
Merek Cooper
The Super Furry Animals
Phantom Power
(XL Recordings)
Can somebody please tell
the Super Furry Animals that if
they wanna be taken seriously
as a real band they're going
to have to start acting like
one? Make a bad album, why
don't you? I mean, it's been
ten bloody years. Can we
tone it down a bit? It's getting
embarrassing for the rest of
them. And what's all this about
golden retrievers? You can't ■
write one ofthe best songs
of the year about one of the
most popular family pets in
North America. Hasn't anyone
given them the rock rulebook?
Jesus Christ, people, look alive,
they're gonna start recordng
another one soon.
Merek Cooper
Themselves
TheNoMus/cofA/FFS
(Anticon)
■ Dose One is quite possibly the
most original vocalist in any
genre, but he takes a lot of shit
from the hip hop community.
There are a lot of people out
there that are just not ready
for this guy. For everybody
else, here's a ptatter full of
stellar remixes by the likes of
Fog, Why?, the Notwist and
Electric Birds. These tracks run
the gamut from lo-fi guitar
sampling to burbling tech-
house to vintage Massive
Attack paranoia, and Dose is
on every song. Enjoy.
saelan
Turbonegro
Scandanavlan Leather
(Epitaph Records)
The cover art of this album
symbolizes a darker vision of
the "death punk" sound the
Apocalypse Dudes would
bring to the masses. "Fuck
the World" is this year's
"Smells like Teen Spirit." Denim
jackets will forever remain a
fashion requirement for kids
everywhere.
Bryce Dunn
we'd fall in love over the
phone" stuck in your head
for days. Plus, his dad was on
Undeclared.
Kimberley Day
The Unicorns
Who Will Cut Our Hair When
We're Gone?
(Aliens)
Adorable Montreal boys who
play for free in car wash bays.
What's even better, they aren't
on the Constellation records
label nor would they want to
be.
Luke Meat
US Maple
Purple on Time
(Drag City)
How strange can the weirdest
men in music get? Not much,
apparently, so they've stayed
where they were and even
Uretrtqted a little from the
precipice. Purple on Time
sees US Maple recruit a new
drummer and coyer Bob
Dylan's "Lay Lady Lay." The
t guitars still trickle down through
the mix like fingers on a
blackboard and the vocals are
still whispered and sneered like
q creepy man talking to young
girls through a schoolyard
fence. What did you expect?
It's a US Maple album and it's
still great.
Merek Cooper
Rufus Wainwright
Want One
(DreamWorks)
It's hard to believe that
Rufus Wainwright used to get
heckled at most of his shows.
A combination of beautiful
cabaret-style vocals and
impressively creative and
intricate music, this, his third
album, is not unlike the last
two. Just TRY to avoid getting
the line "Thought that maybe
White Stripes
Elephant
(V2)
Does this really need
explaining? No. But if someone
would like to explain Jack's
limited colour scheme when it
comes to the clothes he wears,
I'm all ears.
Bryce Dunn
Xui Xui
A Promise
(5RC)
It's not often that an album
features both a photo of a
naked Vietnamese man and
' of a chart-topping hit
song. But with A Promise, Xui
Xui can lay claim to just such a
dubious honour. Morbidly and
*1TrjrfBdrBjmatically fantastic,
this album is perfect for just
about any teenage bedroom
crisis you can throw at it. Plus
it contains a song called "Ian
Curtis Wish List," so it's damn
near perfect. When the chart-
'toppfng hit song does make an
appearance, it fits so well and
is so beautifully interpreted that
you won't even realise you're
listening to a cover of Tracy
Chapman's "Fast Car."
Merek Cooper •
DISCLAIMER:
Yeah, okay, I know we missed
some. All we can do Is our best.
Space was limited. We have
loads more albums that we
think are amazing. 2003 was a
bumper year. If you can handle
any more, go to:
www.cltr.ca/discorder
CD/LP
CD ON
ORTHLORNG MUSORKiorthi*)
ORTH18: AGF "WESTERNIZATION COMPLETED" CD/ BOOK
ORTH17: EIGHT FROZEN MODULES: THE ABDUCION OF BARRY CD
WWW.MUSORK.COM
LP ON
ACHE RECORDS (acheoi2)
ACHE011: KID COMMANDO "HOLY KID COMMANDO" CD/LP
ACHE013: FOURTET / HELLA SPLIT 7*
WWW.ACHEREC0RDS.COM
DISTRIBUTED BY: REVOLVER (USA), FORCED EXPOSURE, CROSSTALK
SCRATCH, CARGO UK, LOWLANDS, CARGO GERMANY, HARDWAX,
TARGET INTERNATIONAL, PLOP, LA BALEINE Luke Meat is the Music Director here at CiTR. He gets sent bads
of records every week. He's listened to virtually every release that
came through the station this year and this is his verdict on 2003.
You should listen to him. He knows what he's talking about.
The job or Music Diredor for CiTR is not as glamourous as it's cracked
up to be. I estimate I've Istened to over 7000 CDs this year, of which
only about 1500 made it to the CiTR playlist. The remaining 5500 are      *^&['{'
undpr the short leg of my couch. This relentless exposure to al things
ittusical makes it especidly difficult to decide what merits mention in
a "best of" 1st, but nevertheless, here, in no particular order, are some
of the things that stuck out this year.
Best example indie rock is dead:
At Music West '96, Guided by Voices played to a packed house at
The Commodore Ballroom with many stragglers left out in the cold.
This year, due to a lack of ticket sales, GBV sadly had to move their
show from the dorementioned venue to the much smaller and
danker The Drink nightclub, which had never hosted a live band
before. Shame.
Best example grunge is dead:
With this year's roster of bands. Sub Pop. From the sugary electro-pop
of Give Up by The Postal Service and the soaring amdence of The
Kinski/Acid Mothers Temple split EP to the homemade junk rock of
M'icrominature Love by The Michael Yonkers Band and the somber
beauty of Iron And Wine's The Sea and the Rhythm, Sub Pop have
grown out of their proverbial flannel shirts and toques to become the
comeback label of the year.
Best overheard sound bite at a gig:
"Is he really retarded?"—anonymous gig goer during Modest Mouse's
opening slot for The Flaming Lips at The Plaza of Nations.
Best reminder to quit your office job:
[The User]
Musk for Dot Matrix Printers
(Asphodel)
One of the most fascinating releases of the year, [The Userj's Music
for Dot Matrix Printers is a symphony of 14 dot matrix printers with
specially designed programs that utilize every pop, cick and buzz the
machines emanated to create a sparse, occasionally annoying, and
often rhythmically beautiful istening experience.
Best proof Sonic Youth aren't as cool as you think:
Glenn Branca
Tne Ascension
(Acute)
Originaly released in 1981, The Ascension estabished the name of
Glenn Branca among rock and avant-garde music fans. Rdssued
this year by Acute Records, this tost masterpiece is what any clamor-
loving guitar enthusiast needs.
Best proof you are not as cool as you think:
This "indier-than-thou" rag out of Athens, Georgia, is the most
sarcastic, mean-spirited and gut-wrenchingly hilarious music zine
out there. The most recent-ish featured the Chunklet staff offering
hundreds of bands $2500 to break up.
Best song to shake your tail feathers to:
Nina Simone remixed by Felix Da Housecat
"Sinnerman"
(Verve)
This year's Verve Remixed 2 compilation was a far cry better than
the 2002 first installment of modem DJs remixing old jazz tracks, and
a whole lot more danceable too. The redone version of "Sinnerman"
keeps the intensity of Nina's original vocals and adds an incredibly
infectious bass beat that's impossible not to groove to.
Best album to curl up with a good book to:
Steffan Basho Junghans
Rivers and Bridges
. (Strange Attracton)    ' ',3'lVt
Junghans has always been a remarkable musician: a solo artist who
uses no overdubs yet creates the most full and earthly beautiful
sounds out of the acoustic guitar. Rivers and Bridges contains two
lengthy pieces and four shorter deces that utilize both 12 and 6 string
guitars, great for sipping some tea and catching up on some It.
Best album to mix 'shrooms and Jager before gdng out for a night of
flghtin':
Lightning Bolt
Wonderful Rainbow
(Load)
Relentlessly pounding, unabashedy intense, Brian Gibson's searing
bass paired with Brian Chippendale'sintense drumming proves that
there's more going on in Providence, Rl, than tragic Great White gigs.
Guiltiest pleasure of the year
Mew
Frengers S£§p*^&
(Epic)
Not only do these Danish wimps have the worst album cover I've
seen all year, but the disc contains some of the most over-produced
syrupy twee vocals behind crisp choppy guitars and synths. It's also
tremendously catchy. Recommended for those who find Sigur Ros
"too hardcore."
Best reason to beg Daniel Richter to ditch books and get back into
music:
"The Wedge" on MuchMusic.
Slappng in a 45-minute Strokes performance in lieu of actualy
devoting a measly hour a week to indie music is not my idea of "the
best in 'alternative' videos."
Best local band:
Black Rice
No description needed. No excuses. Just go see these maniacs.
Best dupe on an already naive record-buying public:
Ladytron
Softcore Jukebox
(Emperor Norton)
Not a new release, not even a new Ladytron song on the damn thing,
this comp features cool artists such as My Bloody Valentine and The
Fall, yet in the CMJ charts Ladytron get credt for a top 20 album.
Huh?!
Best way to humble an already big-headed college radio music
director
At Music West this year, I was invited to join ten other "industry-types"
to sit and speak on a panel titled "The 11 People Every Inde Artist
Should Know." Among us were The Georgia Straight's Mike Usinger,
The Province's Stuart Derdeyn, people from SOCAN, Breakfast TV, and
various other media luminaries. After being introduced to the crowd
one by one and engaging in a spirited hour-long discussion of the
various ways in which we could help out burgeoning artists, the floor
was opened to questions. The first question? "Uh, yeah. This panel was
supposed to tell us the eleven most important people for us to know.
So who are they?" Ouch.
J^O'.c«y»«tevu $4 Red Cat Records
4307 \loin St.
New & Used CDs & Vinyl
ph. 708-9422 * email buddy#redeat.ea
your flame
r
"Absolutely gorgeous and seductive." - Exclaim!
"...intense, subtle, heart-wrenching and haunting." - Chart
THE RELEASES OF 2003
VISIT    WWW.SONICUNYON.COM    FOR    FREE    MP3s
SUNCD080 • TOSHACK HIGHWAY vs SIANSPHERIC • Magnetic Morning / Aspirin Age
6 • TANGIERS • Hot New Spirits
SUNCD087 • A NORTHERN CHORUS • Spirit Hags
SUNCD089 • FRANK BLACK AND THE CATHOLICS • Show Me Your Tc
SUNCD090 • MANISHEVITZ • City Life
SUNCDQ91 • RAISING THE FAWN • By The Warmth Of Your FI;
4^ SONIC UNYON
ciz^- ?,t4»C44»W    i£ ARE YOU SERIOUS? MUSIC
9.00AM-12:00PM
All of time is measured by its
art.
This show presents the most
recent new music from around
the world. Ears open.
THE ROCKERS SHOW
12:00PM-3:00PM
Reggae inna al styles and
fashion.
BLOOD ON THE SADDLE
3:00PM-5:00PM
Real    cowshit-caught-in-yer-
boots country.
CHIPS WITH EVERYTHING  alt.
5:00PM-6:00PM
British pop music from al
decades.
SAINT TROPEZ alt.
5:0OPM-6:0OPM
International pop (Japanese,
French, Swedish, British, US,
etc.), 60s soundtracks and
lounge. Book your jet set holiday now!
QUEER FM
6:00PM-8:00PM
Dedicated to the gay, lesbian,
bisexual, and transsexual communities of Vancouver. Lots of
human interest features, background on current issues, and
great music.
RHYTHMSINDIA
&00PM-10:00PM
Rhythmslndia features a wide
range of music from India,
including popular music from
Indian movies from the 1930s
to the present, classical music,
semi-classical music such as
Ghazals and Bhajans, and also
Qawwalis, pop, and regional
language numbers.
TRANCENDANCE
1O:0OPM-12:O0AM
Join us in practicing the
ancient art of.rising above
common thought and ideas
as your host DJ Smiley Mike fays
down the latest trance cuts to
propel us into the domain of
the mystic-al. <trancendance
@hotmail.com>
THE SHOW
12:00AM-2:00AM
FILL-IN
2:0OAM-6:0OAM
MONDAY
FILL-IN
6:00AM- 8:00AM
BREAKFAST WITH THE BROWNS
8:00AM-11:00AM
Your favourite brown-sters,
James and Peter, offer a
savoury blend of the familiar
and exotic in a blend of aural
delights!
THE DIM SUM SHOW
11:00AM-1:00PM
PARTS UNKNOWN
1:00PM-3:00PM
Underground pop for the
minuses with the occasional
interview with your host, Chris.
SANDBOX THEATRE
3:00PM-4:00PM
A show of radio drama orchestrated and hosted by UBC students, featuring independent
works from local, national, and
international theatre groups.
We welcome your involvement. <sandboxtheatre@hot
mail.com>
ABSOLUTE BEGINNERS
4:00PM-5:00PM
A chance for new CiTR DJs
to flex ther musical muscle.
Surprises galore.
STRAIGHT TALK
5:0OPM-6:O0PM
FATHER AND SON alt.
6:00PM-7:30PM
SOLARIZATION alt.
6:00PM-6:30PM 3g»k
MY ASS alt.
6:30PM-7:30PM
Phelps, Albini, 'n' me.
WIGFLUX RADIO
7:30PM-9:00PM
Listen to Setecta KrystabeHe for
your reggae education.
THE JAZZ SHOW
9:00PM-12:00AM
Dec. 1: The ill-fated trombonist Frank Rosolino was, in the
opinion of many, the best. This
session, featuring a powerful
rhythm section and tenor saxophone great Harold Land, is
one of Rosolino's best. "Free
•toralllF" ;
Dec. 8: Tonight we honour
the birthday of James Oscar
Smith...the undisputed king
and champion of the ham-
C1T* wi,* m
mond organ. "The boss" is
a live club date with Jimmy
and guitar giant George
Benson. It smokes!
Dec. 15: "Yeah!" is a date
with Monk's tenor saxophonist Charlie Rouse. A real
unsung hero. Rouse, under
his own steam, plays quite
differently than he does with
Monk. Check out Rouse's
most personal recording
tonight.
Dec. 22: As is tradition on "The
Jazz Show," the historic Miles
Davis-led summit meetings
with vibist Milt Jackson and
pianist Thelonious Monk and
others held on Christmas
eve 1954. Real jazz and real
Christmas music!
Dec. 2?: We end the year
with the complete album
from which our theme song
is taken. Trombone giant
Bennie Green and company
with "Soul Stirrin." The Jazz
Show and Gavin Walker wish
everyone out there a very
Happy New Year.
Jan. 5: We kick the new
year off with bassist/pianist/
composer and innovator
Charles Mingus and one of his
most adventurous ensembles
with £ric Dolphy (bass clarinet
and alto saxophone}, Booker
Ervin (tenor saxophone)
Ted Curson (trumpet) and
Dannie Richmond (drums).
Documenting Mingus' first trip
to Europe. Hear how Mingus
scared the fteiftjjfjpK;>'>
Jan. 12: Focus is tenor saxophonist Stan Getz's favprite
album. This masterwork combines Getz's improvisations
over great stirring writing By
Eddie Sauter. A true classic!
Jan. 19: "Five by *fl§Kk ,fcy-'
Five" Spots pianist/composer
Thelonious Monk with his
working quartet plus one:
trumpeter, or more correctly
coronettist, Thad Jones is
added to the mix. Jones
became a Monk favorite
after this session and you'll
hear why. The title says it all.
Jan. 26: "New York, N.Y."
Composer George Russel's
SaW Tropin (aU. Sundays 5pm-6pm)
Top 10 for 2003 *
by Christine G
h"M0»~fntngets'M ' "*
2, M83r0ec«tfC8fe&fted$ecB&iO3fGi»©$f
& TheCientete-VibielHwir \^
4. V/A~&estofPQpaParis:ftyche~RockeiMin4upe$
5. Bfl&odcaast-Hefco Sound
&i Jwilor Sartor «CK*<ta*>'tStop *f» Seat   -
?, The fmetiosisn* Heaven/Earth fre^sstiei
6. 'Bete & Sebastian »&earCofa&ophe Waitress
9. Goldfrapp -flfacfc Cherry
10 The Postal Service - Give Up
portrait of North America's
most fabled city. Russel
assembled a huge orchestra with people like John
Coltrane, Bill Evans, Phil
• Woods) Max Roach and a
great narration by wordsmith
Jon Hendrix make this feature
a must! New York, New York,
a town so nice they named
it twice!
VENGEANCE IS MINE
12:00AM-3:00AM
Hosted by Trevor. It's punk rock,
baby! Gone from the charts
but not from our hearts—thank
fucking Christ.
PSYCHEDEUC AIRWAVES
3:00AM-6:30AM
DJ Christopher Schmidt also
hosts Organix at Club 23 (23
West Cordova) every Friday.
TUESDAY
PACIFIC PICKIN'
6:30AM-8:00AM
Bluegrass, old-time music and
its derivatives with Arthur and
"The Lovely Andrea" Berman.
HIGHBRED VOICES
8:00AM-9:30AM
THIRD TIME'S THE CHARM
9:30AM-11:30AM
Open your ears and prepare
for a shock! A harmless note
may make you a fan! Hear the
menacing scourge that is Rock
and Roll! Deadlier than the
most dangerous criminal!
<bc»minsMynhe€tx3trnotcom>
FILL-IN ad.
11:30AM-12:00PM
MORNING AFTER SHOW alt.
11:30AM-12:30PM
REEL TO REAL off.
12:30PM-1:00PM
Movie reviews and criticism.
BEATUP RONIN all.
12:00PM-2:00PM
Where dead samurai can program music.
FILL-IN OJJ.
1:00PM-2:00PM
CIRCUIT TRACING
2:00PM-3:30PM
EN AVANT LA MUSIQUE alt.
3:30PM-4:30PM
«En Avant la musique!» se
concentre sur le metissage
des genres musicaux au sein
d'une francophonie ouverte
a tous les courants. This program focuses on cross-cultural music and its influence
on mostly Francophone
musicians.
FILL-IN alt.
3:30PM-4:30PM
THE MEAT-EATING VEGAN
4:30PM-5:00PM
WENER'S BARBEQUE
5:0OPM-6:00PM
Join the sports dept. for their
coverage of the T-Birds.
FLEXYOURHEAD
6:00PM-8:00PM
Up the punx, down the emo!
Keepin' it real since 1989, yo.
flexyourhead.vancouverhard
core.com
SALARIO MINIMO
8:00PM- 10:00PM
THE LOVE DEN alt.
10:00PM-1Z00AM
<loveden@hotma9.com>
ESCAPISM alt.
10:00PM-12.00AM
es«cap*ism  n:  escape from
the reality or routine of life by
absorbing the mind in entertainment or fantasy.
Host: DJ Satyricon.
<DJSatyifcon@hotrrrail.com>
AURAL TENTACLES
12:00AM-6:00AM
It could be punk, ethno, global,
trance, spoken word, rock, the
unusual and the weird, or it
could be something different..
Hosted by DJ Pierre.
WEDNESDAY
FILL-IN
6:00AM- 7:00AM
THE SUBURBAN JUNGLE
7:00AM-9:00AM
Bringing you an entertaining
and eclectic mix of new and
old music live from the Jungle
Room with your irreverent
hosts Jack Velvet and Nick
the Greek. R&B, disco, techno,
soundtracks, Americana, Latin
jazz, news, and gossip. A real
gem!
<sutxrtxriungis@chomeB8xx)nnP>
FOOL'S PARADISE
9:00AM-10:00AM
Japanese music and talk.
EXQUISITE CORPSE
IOrOOAM-11:30AM
Experiments, Collage, Plunder
All your favorite hits... are not an
option.
<http://members.shaw.ca/
ecorpse>
ANOIZE
11:30AM-1:00PM
Luke Meat irritates and educates through musical deconstruction. Recommended for
the strong.
THE SHAKE at.
l:0OPM-2rt)0PM
FOR THE RECORD ait.
1:00PM-2:00PM
DEMOCRACY NOW
2:00PM-3:00PM
Independent   news   hosted
by awarpl-winning journalists
Amy  Goodman  and  Juan
Gonzalez.
MOTORDADDY ad.
3:00PM-5:00PM
Cyde-riffic rawk and roll!
RUMBLETONE RADIO alt.
3:0OPM-5:0OPM
Primitive, fuzzed-out garage
mayhem!
RACHEL'S SONG
5:00PM-6:30PM
Socio-political, environmental
activist news and spoken word
with some music, too.
www.necessaryvoices.org
<necessaryvoices@telus.net>
AND SOMETIMES WHY alt.
6:30PM-8:OOPM
(First  Wednesday  of  every
month.)
BLUE MONDAY off.
6:30PM-8:00PM
Vancouver's   only industrial-
'   electronic-retro-goth program.
Music to schtomp to, hosted
by Coreen.
JUICEBOX
8:00PM-9:00PM
Your ears have never felt so
naughty!
FOLK OASIS
9:00PM-11:00PM
Roots music for folkies and non-
folkies... bluegrass, singer-songwriters, worldbeat, alt country,
and more. Not a mirage!
<folkoasis@canada.com>
HANS KLOSS' MISERY HOUR
11:00PM-2:00AM
FIRST FLOOR SOUND SYSTEM
2:00AM-6:00AM
THURSDAY
FILL-IN
6:00AM-8:00AM
END OF THE WORLD NEWS
8:00AM-10:00AM
PLANET LOVETRON
10:00AM-11:30AM
Music inspired by Chocolate
Thunder, Robert Robot
drops electro past and
present, hip hop and inter-
galactic funkmanship.
<rbottove@yahoo.com>
FILL-IN
11:3OAM-12:00PM
UNPACK YOUR ADJECTIVES
12:00PM-1:00PM
STEVE AND MIKE
1:00PM-2:00PM
Crashing the boy's club in the
pit. Hard and fast, heavy and
slow (punk and hardcore).
THE ONOMATOPOEIA SHOW
2:00PM-3:00PM
Comix comix comix. Oh yeah,
and some music with Robin.
RHYMES AND REASONS
3:00PM-5:00PM
DJ Knowone slaves over hot-
multi-track to bring a fresh continuous mix of fresh every week.
Made from scratch, samples
and just a few drops Of fame.
Our tables also have plethora
of guest DJs, performers, interviews, giveaways. Strong Bad
and the occasional public
service announcements.
<eno_wonk@yahoo.ca>
LOCAL KIDS MAKE GOOD
5:00PM-6:00PM alt.
Local Dave brings you local
music of aB sorts. The program
most likely to play your band!
PEDAL REVOLUTIONARY alt.
5:00PM-6:00PM
Viva la Veforotton! DJ Helmet
Hair and Chainbreaker
Jane give you all the
bike news and views
you need and even cruise
around while doing it!
www.bikesexual.org
OUT FOR KICKS
6:00PM-7:30PM
No Birkenstocks, nothing politically correct. We don't get
paid so you're damn right we
have fun with it. Hosted by
Chris B.
ON AIR WITH GREASED HAIR
7:30PM-9:00PM
The best in roots, rock 'n' roll
and rhythm and blues from
1942-1962 with your snappily-
attired host, Gary Olsen.
<ripftup55@telus.net>
UVEFROMTHUNDBffllRD RADIO HBL
9:00PM-11:00PM
4LA4/C *\ A*\.     m " Local muzak from 9 ti 10. Live
bandzfromlOtilll.
www.stepandahalf.com/
tbirdhell
WORLD HEAT
11:00PM-1:00AM
An old punk rock heart
considers the oneness of all
things and presents music
of worlds near and far.
Your host, the great Dqryl-
ani, seeks reassurance via
<woridheat@hotmail.com>.
FILL-IN
1:00AM-6:00AM
FRIDAYS
FILL-IN
6:00AM- 8:00AM      -|l|p£
CAUGHT IN THE RED
8:00AM-10:00AM
Trawling the trash heap of
over 50 years' worth of real
rock'n'roll debris.
SKA-rS SCENE-IK DRIVE!
10:OOAM-12:OOPM
Email  requests  to:  <djska_
t@hotmail.com>
THESE ARE THE BREAKS
12:0OPM-2:OOPM
Top notch crate diggers DJ
Avi ^hack and Promo mix the
underground hip hop, old
school classics and original
breaks.
THE LEO RAMIREZ SHOW
2:00PM-3:30PM
The best mix of music, news,
sports and commentary
from around the local and
international Latin American
communities. -
NARDWUAR THE HUMAN
SERVIETTE PRESENTS.-
3:30PM-5:00PM
CITR NEWS AND ARTS
5:0OPM-6:OOPM
A volunteer-produced,
student and community newscast featuring news,
sports and arts. Reports by
people like you. "Become the
Media." To get involved, visit
www.citr.ca and click "News
Dept."
THE NORTHERN WISH
6:00PM-7:30PM
AFRICAN RHYTHMS
7:3OPM-9:0OPM
David "Love" Jones brings
you the best new and old jazz,
soul, Latin, samba, bossa and
African music from around
the world.
www.africanrhythmsradio.
com
HOMEBASS
9:00PM-12:00AM
Hosted by DJ Noah: techno
but also some trance, acid,
tribal, etc. Guest DJs, inter
views,  retrospectives,  giveaways, and more.
I UKE THE SCRIBBLES alt.
12:00AM-2:00AM
THE ANTIDOTE all.
12:00AM-2:00AM
THE VAMPIRE'S BALL
2:0OAM-6:0OAM
Dark,   sinister, music  of  all
genres to soothe the Dragon's
soul. Hosted by Drake.
SATURDAY
FILL-IN
6:0OAM-8:0OPM
THE SATURDAY EDGE
8:00AM- 12:00PM
Studio guests, new releases,
British comedy sketches, folk
music calendar and ticket
giveaways.
8AM-9AM: African/World roots.
9AM-12PM: Celtic music and
performances.
GENERATION ANNIHILATION
12:00PM-1:00PM
A fine Unix of streetpunk and
old school hardcore backed
by band interviews, guest
speakers, and social commentary.
www.streetpunkrcraio.com
<crashnburnrad'io@yahoo.ca>
POWERCHORD
1:00PM-3:00PM
Vancouver's only true metal
show; local demo tapes,
imports, and other rarities.
Gerald Rattlehead, Dwain,
and Metal Ron do the damage.
CODE BLUE
3:00PM-5:00PM
From backwoods delta low-
down slide to urban harp
honks, blues, and blues roots
with your hosts Jim, Andy and
Paul.
ELECTROLUX HOUR
5:00PM-6:00PM
SOUL TREE
6:00PM-9:00PM
From doo-wop to hip hop,
from the electric to the eclectic, host Michael Ingram goes
beyond the call of gospel
and takes soul muse to the
nth degree.
SYNAPTIC SANDWICH
9:00PM-1 1:00PM
PLUTONIAN NIGHTS
11:00PM-1:00AM
Cutting-edge, progressive
organ music with resident
Haitchc and various guest
performers/DJs. Bye-bye
civilisation, keep smiling blue,-
where's me bloody anesthetic
then?
http://plutonia.org
EARWAX
DJ profile
Bleek Swinney
Exquisite Corpse
Wednesdays 10:00 -11:30AM
Describe your show:
Experimental, audio-art, collage, cut-ups, fun.
Record played most often on
your show?
Besides the opening theme,
"Oh Little Seeds" by Steve
Fisk, I probably play a tie
between—People Like
Us/Wobbly/Jet Black Hair
People's "Pet Goldfish" or
any thing from Chris Burke's
Idioglossia.
Last record you bought?
V/A Branches and Routes
(Fatcat)
Musician you would like
to marry?
I'm married: but Vicky
(People Like Us) Bennet and I
are marrying soon anyway.
Favourite Show on CiTR?
I love so many but it'll have to
come down to a tie between
Anoiz and St. Tropez.
Strangest phone call
received while on air?
One day I was reading
about circuit boards or
something, don't remember what. A caller thought
it was so weird that I was
discussing something he
happened to be working
on right then. I confirmed
that we indeed have hidden cameras.
1:O0AM-4:3OAM
"noiz terror mhdfuck hardcore like
punk/beatz drop dem headz
rock inna junglist mashup/distort
da source full force with needtz
on wax/my chaos runs rampant
when I free da jazz..." Out.
REGGAE LINKUP
4:30AM-9:00AM
Hardcore dancehall reggae.
Hosted by Sister B.
Sunday
Monday
Tuesday
6AM
7
8
9
REGGAE LINKUP
(RG)
PACIFIC PICKIN'
FILL-IN
FILL-IN
FILL-IN
6AM
(RT)
SUBURBA
(E
MJUNGLE
MLL-IIN
8
9
BREAKFAST
WITH
THE BROWNS
(EC)
HIGHBRED VOICES
(WO)
C)
END OF THE
WORLD NEWS (EC)
CAUGHT IN
THE RED (RR)
THE
SATURDAY
EDGE (RT)
ARE YOU
SERIOUS?
MUSIC (EC)
FOOL'S PARADISE (WO)
10
11
THIRD TIMES
THE CHARM (RR)
10
EXQUISrrECORPSE(EX)
PLANET
LOVETRON (DC)
SCENIC DRIVE (SK)
THE DIM SUM SHOW
(EC)
FILL-IN
MORNING AFTER
ANOIZE
(NO)
FILL-IN
1?PM
ROCKERS
SHOW (RG)
BEATUP
RONIN
(EC)
REEL TO REAL (TK)
UNPACKYOURADJECTIVES
THESE ARE THE
BREAKS (HH)
GENERATION
ANNIHILATION (PU)
2
3
PARTS UNKNOWN
(PO)
FILL-IN
SHAKE (RR)             RECORD (TK)
STEVE & MIKE (HC)
POWERCHORD
(MT)
2
3
CIRCUIT TRACING
(DC/EC)
DEMOCRACY NOW (TK)
THE ONOMATOPOEIA
SHOWfTK)
LEO RAMIREZ
SHOW (WO)
BLOOD ON THE
SADDLE (RT)
SANDBOX THEATRE (TK)
RHYMES &
REASONS (HH)
CODE BLUE
(RT)
4
ELECTRIC
LAMU^O^O^)
MOTORDADDY/
RUMBLETONE RADIO
(RR)
NARDWUAR
PRESENTS (NW)
4
ABSOLUTE BEGINNERS (EC)
5
6
MEAT EATING VEGAN (EC)
cmpswith              SAINT
EVERyTHNG(PO)    | TROPEZ (PO)
STRAIGHT TALK (TK)
WENER'S BBQ (SP)
RACHEL'S
SONG (TK)
MAKE GOOD      REVOLUTION(TK)
CfTR NEWS AND ARTS (TK)
ELECTROLUX HOUR (EC)
6
QUEER FM
(TK)
FATHER
&
SON (EC)
SOLARIZATION (TK)
FLEX YOUR
HEAD (HC)
OUT FOR KICKS
(PO)
THE NORTHERN WISH
(EC)
SOULTREE
(SO)
A.S.W.
(PO/EC)
BLUE
MONDAY (Gl)
7
MY ASS (EC)
7
8
WIGFLUX RADIO (RG)
ON AIR WITH
GREASED HAIR (RR)
AFRICAN RHYTHMS
(WO)
8
9
10
11
12 AM
RHYTHMSINDIA
PlPI   (WO)
SALARIO MINIMO
(WO)
JUICEBOX (TK)
THE
JAZZ SHOW
(JZ)
FOLK OASIS (RT)
LIVE FROM...
THUNDERBIRD HELL
(LM)
HOMEBASS
(DC)
SYNAPTIC
SANDWICH
(DC/EC)
11
12AM
TRANCENDANCE
(DC)
VENUS
FLYTRAP
(EC)
ESCAPISM
(EC)
HANS KLOSS'
MISERY HOUR
(HK)
WORLD HEAT
(WO)
PLUTONIAN
NIGHTS (DC)
THE SHOW
(HH)
VENGEANCE
IS MINE!
(PU)
AURAL
TENTACLES
(EC)
1 LIKE THE
SCRIBBLES(EC)
THE
ANTIDOTE
(EC)
FILL
IN
EARWAX
(HH/DC)
2
3
4
FILL-IN
FIRST FLOOR
SOUND SYSTEM
THE
VAMPIRE'S
BALL
PSYCHEDELIC
4
5
6
(DC
'EC)
(t=
^)
(E
C)
REGGAE LINKUP (RG)
5
fi
CH=children's • DC=dance/electronic • EC=eclectic • EX=experimental • FR=French language • GI=goth/industrial • HC=hardcore • HH=hiphop • HK=Hans Kloss • Kl=kids • JZ=jazz
LM=live music • LO=lounge • MT=metal • NO=noise • NW=Nardwuar • PO=pop • PU=punk • RG=reggae • RR=rock • RT=roots • SK=ska • SO=soul • SP=sports • TK=talk • WO=world
elt-te,.n &*•   »-\*.t   it ssvsvsr
To submit an event
to datebook send info to:
discorder@club.ams.ubc.ca
December Albums
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiW
* Jf so Sffte icnown%c< #raf .TheOirtoombjtfifiboc© fherscorcflhg of
'^fr>e#aJ&WTOfey*uwii^
1 Dirtbombs
Dangerous Magical Noise    In the Red
2 The Gay
You Know the Rules
Mint
3 Kid Koala
Some of my Best Friend
Ninja Tune
4 Young and Sexy
Life Through One Speaker             Mint
5 DOA
War and Peace
Sudden Death
6 Plastikman
Closer
Paperbag
7 Ron Sexsmith
Rarities
Linus
8 Stereolab
Instant 0 In the Universe
Elektra
9 V/A
Peg City Skank
Bacteria
10 Radio Berlin
Sister Sounds
Action Driver
11 Ashley Park
The Secretariat Motor Hotel      Darling
12 Rachel's
Systems/Layers
Quarterstick
13 The Shins
Chutes Too Narrow
Sub Pop
14 Human Hi-Lite
s/t
Otto
15YokoCasionos
s/t
Independent
14 Mummies
Death by Unga Bunga!
Estrus
17 Peaches
Fatherfucker
Beggars/XL
18 Dudes
Beepuncher EP           Moustache Wax
19 Sparrow
s/t
Overcoat
20 Buck 65
Talkin' Honky Blues
WEA
21 Plaid
Spokes
Warp
22 Stars
Heart
Arts and Crafts
23 Ken Nordine
Wink
Asphodel
24 New Deal
Gone Gone Gone
Arsehole
25 Kinski/Acid Mothers..
s/t
Sub Pop
24 Sk Organs of Admittance Compathia
Holy Mountain
27 US Maple
Purple on Time
Touch and Go
28 Mr Plow
It's Plow or Never
Crusty
29 Al Green
1 Can't Stop
Blue Note
30 Elvis Costello
North
Universal
31 The User
Abandon
Asphodel
32 Rambling Ambassadors Avanti
Mint
33 Thor
Triumphant
Scratch
34 Guided by Voices
Best of...
Matador
35 V/A
25th Anniversary
Rough Trade
Thursday December 4
The Supersuckers
® Richard's
Friday December 5
Buttless Chaps
Summerlad
Dead Model Shoot
@ Pic Pub
Monday December 8
Beatstreet Party
@ Pic Pub
Tuesday December 9
Aesop Rock
Mr Lif
Akrobatik
SA Smash
DJ Fakts One
©Richards
Thursday December 11
Mark Lanegan Band
©Richard's
Friday December 12
Formal Farewell
Ceremony For Merek
Cooper
dress code strictly
enforced
©YVR
Saturday December 13
Luke Meat's Brithday
Bash (which Merek will
just miss)
© The Gathering
Black Rice
Sidesixtyseven
© Video In
The Countless Jibes
GangBang
The Ewoks
© Pic Pub
Cat Power (see picture. •
mmm.)
Sleater-Kinney
©Showbox (Seattle)
Sunday December 14
Cali Agents
Jean Grae (Mexican
Descent)
Buke One
Headspin
© Pic Pub
Monday December 15
Scratch Bastid
©No Luck Club
Tuesday December 16
The Distillers
©Croation Cultural
Centre
Wednesday December
17
Kids These Days
Bel Riose
Shades of Scoprius
Thursday December 1
Wasabi Collective
© Pic Pub
Friday December 19
Young and Sexy
Sparrow
© WISE Hall
p:ano
Mimi's Ami
© Pat's Pub
Salteens
Dirtmitts
Yoko Casionos
Team Strike Force
© Railway
Radio Berlin
Dead Sure
Secret Mommy
© Pic Pub
Saturday December 20
Salteens
Hoodwinks
Girl Nobody
Billy & The Lost Boys
© -Railway
S.T.R.E.E.T.S
© Brickyard
Joel R.L. Phelps
Secret Three
© Sugar Refinery
Goatsblood
© Marine Club
Wednesday December
24
Norwegian people get
theirpresents.
Friday December 31
New Years Dance!
The Mod Club and
Scene-ik Drive present
Los Furios and Duotang
DJ Ska-T and Lee Modern
Sunday January 16
Organ
My Project Blue
© Brickyard
Thursday January 20
Joel R. L. Phelps
Secret Three
places t
o be
concert venues:
misc venues:
brickyard
315carrall
604.685.3922
cinematheque
1131 howe
604.688.8202
cafe deux soleils
2096 commercial
604.254.1195
ridge cinema
3131 arbutus
604.738.6311
cellar      ■.C'.^
3611 w. broadway
604.738.1959
video in studios
1965 main
604.872.8337
cobalt
917 main
604.764.punk
commodore
green room
868 granville
695 cambie
604.739.7469
604.608.2871
record shops:
lotus
455 abbott
604.685.7777
active pass records
324 w. hasting
604.646.2411
the main
4210 main
604.709.8555
bassix records
217 w, hastings
604.689.7734
marine club
573 homer
604.683.1720
beatstreet records
3-712 robson
604.683.3344
pat's pub
403 e. hastings
604.255.4301
block swan records
3209 w. broadway
604.734.2828
pic pub
620 w. pender
604.682.3221
crosstown music
518 w. pender
604.683.8774
railway club
579 dunsmuir
604.681.1625
futuristic flavour
1020 granville
604.681.1766
richard's
1036 richards
604.687.6794
highlfe records
1317 commercial
604.251.6964
the royal
1029 granville    -
604.685.7527
red cat records
4305 main
604.708.9422
sonar
66 water
604.683.6695
scrape records
17 w. broadway
604.877.1676
sugar refinery
1115 granville
604.331.1184
scratch records
726 richards
604.687.6355
WISE club:      V"
1882 adanac
604.254.5858
zulu records
1972 w. 4th
604.738.3232
4**«o>VoUri.    J& KftMRlPlittS
Seamrippers Craft Collective
is a group of artists.ja^v-/*
crafters working in a. range
of craft media/ We are
currently organising, a variety
of fundraising events and
participating in a series of
craft fairs. We are working
toward opening :jk'^a**a$u.v«r-
based center f$fc'^.onteniporary
craft in the new year.
The project is rooted in a
common desire to meet the >«^g
changing needs of local
wM artists and 'cz%f$ers by
»'. creating a community space
H| that includes working facility,
« hosting space and gallery..
r^ Integrating elements of art,
Ik./cieaft, fashion, pop culture
and contemporary desigft^.;^
, we are a new breed of craft.
|  With this broadened
definition of craft in mind,
we are focused on addressina
I  the current lack of exhibition
|  space and studio resource
available in Vancouver. Our
main priority is breaking down ;
the barriers between :
i  traditionally exclusive
practices to create an
|  inclusive community environment
I . for working snd learning.
THE SPACE ITSELF:
As mentioned, there are three
main aims for the space...
1. STUDIO FACILITY
open to the public and co-op
members, the facility/resource
will include a range of
craft-related media, both
traditional (eg:quilting,
felting, bookbinding) and
non-traditional (silk-
screening, clothing alteration)
2. HOSTING SPACE
•.the center wil^~:4>£ ,a space
for hosting a- -i^'i-ety of
craft events, such as
workshops, knitting circles
and crafc fairs.
|i GALLERY
an exhibition space for
contemporary craft and
craft-related projects.
CONTACTS
for ;?iore  information, we can
be contacted at
seara_rippers&excite.cora    '&£>;
^MUS*^
Vie will have tables at art
events and craft fairs around
the city....
FRI+SAT NOV 21+22
CULTURE CRAWL (?95 E.Pender)
SUN NOV 2J
RILEY PARK CRAFT FAIR
SAT+SUN NOV 29+30*
SOUND AND FURIES
(^Heritage Hall)
SAT NOV 29 * '*M^|
TROUT LAKE CRAFT FAIR
FRI,SAT+SUN DEC5,6+7
BRITANNIA CRAFT FAIR
FRI+SAT DEC 5+6   \
ARTFUL CiiAFT j-aiic
(SVideoIn)
SAT DEC 20
RED SQUARE
(fc!f3S c«MHe*«J*»-D*-)
"SAT+SUN DEC 20+21
SOUND AND FURIES*
(fcHeritaee Hall)
("unconfirmed dates) ,
If you ittfTSuboitting work,
please include a complete
inventory list with prices, j
Seamrippers takes a 25%
/*Cthv b**»-+flU.}, by the stereo's
warm glow
MW£09Rd$M
LfEHVTZULAK
The Princess
Builder CD
DAVID CROSS
Let America Laugh
DVD
r\Lee's sonic obscura gave us a
pinhole glance into a miniature landscape of darkly evocative voices and
melodies. Now joined by a cast of superlatively talented players,
including Masa Anzai, Stephen Lyons, Julian Gosper, Thomas
Shields and others, this latest recordtngfiarws-aflawless arc
between reflective acoustic repose and crackling chaotic noise.
Hmmm... warm your hands on these flames of beauty.   :
CD 12.98
B.FLBSCHMANN
Welcome Tourist.
2CD
Back in the day, when the Morr
Music "melodirtronlssS*ti|uBi^
was first filtering ave>ffd® If
Germany, the estimable Bemhard
Fleischmann captured the hearts of manV^RBJisuspecting
Zulu customer. Such is Fleischmann's ear for layerftt|p^||o
sistJble tunes atop luxurious beds of processed sound^^tt^
work proved irresistibte'tomswst*arp-eareovsh0p{ieRJ^86f"
these pioneering works were composed entirely on a fifty".
"groovebox," Welcome Tourist expands the B-man%|p§p5'fi
palette considerably, making it his most ambitious aijf^rjtjji^-
2Cti^2.90^
rWYTWWlAMD
SOUND
With The Artists
CD/LP
Toiling away behind a smoty veil
of virtual anonymity, Se^^^S
Moritz von Oswald and Mark
Emestus have gradually built a formidable reputation among,
denizens of the mainland European electronica underground
Missives from their dusty, dusky netherworld have been appearing as minimally-labeled slabs of vinyl i egularly for the past
decade. First, as Basic Channel, they pioneered a much-copied
style of static-swathed dub-techno. Mom recently, as Rhythm
and Sound, the duo has extrapolated upon its early riddim theories, inventing a whole new digital reggae dialect in the process.
The Artists features a shocking array of superb roots vocalists
playing fast and loose over some of the warmest amUnolJ!-
expansive low-end maneuvers we've bom witness to in years.
Righteous stuff. S8^|l£|l
CDVLP 16.98
CHRIS MASTHEIM
I Come On All Ye CD
A.K A Burquitlam Plaza!! When wintering In thajuibitrbt
you must do mom Am volunteer at an old folks home. If
you ani talented you must not die In oteeunlyt you musLsbam
your vision, your love and your cftSnce to make holiday ejwer
Thus we give you the highly limited edition;of winteregngs
from Nick of ftano! Make (ne$&
A uanta's original stand-up bad boy
Mflavid Cross is a big time Vancouver
favorite. Now thanks to the brain trust at
t^l^^irou can be with Mr. Cross all the I
- Smaa^pl follow him on his hilarious
■4jtbst£€$jfttry tour! That's right Let
America Laugh is the video four diary of David's 2002 Shut Up
You Fucking Baby comedy junket! Laugh it up as you meet the
grotesque underbelly of today's comedy circuit—a skuzzy romp
•fhfed^oojslder demographic of friends, family, interviewers,
promoters, fluffers, hanger-ons, and of course a few girls going
wild for the "David Cross" sex appeal!
DVD 19.98
MWOR THREAT
liSlMJVD   |
Still the compass for many punks
today, Minor Threat changed the
3t8h$#$Hnk in the '80s. Strident yet not
" dogmatic, unlike some they inspired,
Minor Threat took the punk tradition
head-on, in the process revealing its
essential values: a do-it-yourself ethic and
a sense of total commitment that transcended mere fashM Punk for them
was a way of life, not a lifestyle Now on
DVD, this 92 minute collection of live
footage from the early '80s captures the spirit and energy of il
Threat in their jHitneJatSo including an informative biographical
booklet and onscreen introductory essays by Ian MacKaye.
DVD 22.98;
CIRCLESQUARE
Pre-Earthquake/uithemsCDAP
This release on UICS prestigious Output label waasliojiey-
delayed due to its injmacutate,packaging No pnnt Shop in.
Europe could get it right Local impresario March 21 has standards. For that we St)0^iJO|frjise%ratulate him, because this
anticipated release lives up to all expectations. These standards
are also why James Lavelle has asked March 21, and not-
Shadow, to remix the' new Unkle Indeed, just as electro and new
no wave reach for life support, these Pre Earthquake Anthems
offer some hope, however isolated. Note: Ask about a special run
of blueprint promo gear.
CD/LP19.9B
DEADSURE
From Your Head to Your Sacmm
CDEP
Vancouver lost a great and f orw ard-thinteng harden* band- ■'
with the passing of Sparkmarker. Thev *ere prescient earSt
exploring the posf hardcore pur*-that has since relfisd into a
mostly-vacuous growth Industry In those more innocent times
the frenetic Ryan Setttt fronted the group before *Jn» Kinekin
toek-ffiwas Sparkmarker matured MatldftgSsofts (Xibfte
return to music-making Deadsure are a drying and rtJf-heftvy
quartet m the tradition tie-once helped define Welcome bask,
wetee?Bfcho)i»afid-tom fcup,.- ■
CD 8.98
CDEP 11.98
H MADOKA HARA
p MSG ESP Art Show and 2004 Calendar opening Dec ?
Midnight snacks make for rumpled sleep and IVIadoka Hara's FvlSG ESP tells a
N^   Grimm and Gorey tale through devilish little illustrations. Reproduced as
j   a calendar in a CD jewel case, w/artwork on the wail from Dec. 7th-Jan. 3rd.
Zulu's 2003 sonic time capsule
staff picks of 2003
a selection of our yeap-end faves in no paHiciilap opdep
BONUS! ML REGULABLY PRICED SLY t Pill ME 10% OFF
UNTIL JANUARY 31, S
BRADY
Back 65- TaMn' HonkyBasse
The Boo-Pressure
Solomon Buriw-Doal Give Up on
GRANT
Radiohead "Hail to the thief"
The Road
Four Tet-Rounds
Tim Hecker Radio Amor
P. W. Long* Rtwicrnberetl
Prefuse 73- One Word
Extinguisher/ Extinguished:
Outtakes
rmdersticks-Waiting tor the M
CRYS
Keith Rom, Oren Ambarehi,
Sachiko M, Otomo Yoshlhide,
The Hafler Trio-A Small Child
Dreams of Voiding the Plague   „■
duuLdrv -Fade with Consequence
Outkast - Speaker Boxxx/ The Love
4^WWiit*ftB aw free"
Kings of Leon 'Youth and young manhood"
lost in translation" soundtrack
Manitoba "Up in flames"
My Morning Jacket "It stiH moves"
Holly Golightly Truly she is none other"
JASON
The Howling Hex-Introducing
The Witches- On Parade     _ -
Mr. Airplane Man- Moanln'
Neil Michael Hagerty and The Howling Hex- s/t
' miation
e- And This is Our
Califone- Quicksand/Cradlesnakes   *
Six Organs of Aran
Slumber Party-3
Benjamin Biolay-MegatH
CampfireSongs-s/t
Goiky's Zygotic Menci-
hi & Martin Ng-Vigil
JOSH
Tim Hecker Radio Amor
The Bag feat. Cutty Ranks- Gun Disease
The Microphones- Singing from Mount Erie
V/A- Sunny (book + CD)
So-s/t -\^"'.,
The Majesticons-Beauty Party
Set Fhe to Flames- Telegraphs in Negative /
Mouths tapped hi static ISS^"
Loose Furs/t
SAM
The Microphones- Mount Eerie
The Fall- The Real New Fall LP
(Formerly 'Country on the - ""
Click')
Why?-
Noriko Tujiko- Make Me Hard
Matt Elliott-Tin Mess We
Made
The Iditarod- The Ghost, the
EH, the Cat and the Angel
Chris T-T- London is Sinking
Richard youngs- Airs of the Ear
Missy Elliott- This is net a Test
ERIN
Angels of Light-Everything is Good
Erase Errata-At Crystal Palace
VICKI
DOLLY PARTON- Just Because
I'm A Woman (reissue)
Detroit Cobras-Seven Easy
Pieces '
Jerk With A Bomb- Pyrokinesis
MARK
Amoiicsn Anolog Set* Promise of Low
Bardo Pond-On the Ellipse
Circle-Sunrise     ■     '»••.,; .
Kings Of Leon-Youth and
Young Manhood
Jayhawks- Rainyday Music
Circle-Sunrise
Robert Wyatt-C
Lightning Bolt- Wonderful Rainbow
The Fall- The Real New Fall LP (Formerly -Country I
on the Click')
Simply Saucer Cyborgs RevisHed (reissue)
Radiohead- Hail to the Thief
Kinski/Acid Mothers Temple- split
Yo La Tengo- Today Is The Day Ep
the food
ATTENTION AU ZULU REGULAR CUSTOMERS:
Hunger knows no boundaries.      tions to the Food Bank on
TrthsholWay season we am        JMJtth 2064.
encouraging everyone to sup-     tfe|ft: the Food Bank's most
port the Vancouver Food Bank In needed items are: Canned
their dedication to providing       Meats, Soups & Stews, Canned
food and related assistance to    Ffjm & Meat, Pasta, Pasta
these In wed). Yesttan hejpV': .- Saw* A mce,^Canned Beans,
JjfrtA^ott.aiijiwfl-B^s^^ fnrttf 4 Vegetables, and Baby
tysmft]r^«sn spam here titZiihj FomwhtilMapers.
and th) wlH trewNM.rtj)H dona-
mSOltATBMmiBEGIVENA COUPON VALID FOB 10% Off
vmfflBTHOFJAmiMY, "
Zulu Records
1972-1976 W 4th Ave
Vancouver. BC
tel 604.738.3232
vvww.zulurecords.com
STORE HOURS