  'Newer! Bigger! Better! Fester!" from
THAT DOG that dog - An actual band for
only 18 months now, the huge buzz
surrounding THAT DOG is justified! From
folk to punk, from fast to slow, from intense
& angry to delicate & beautiful, their debut
is a varied, yet cohesive platter, highlighted
by gorgeous vocal harmonies & the use of
violin as lead instrument.
CROW My Kind Of Pain - With its
combination of achingly beautiful & highly
confessional lyrics against a dense, raging
guitar-wall, CROWs much anticipated (after
6 years of touring & Australian EP releases)
full-length debut is aptly titled. Produced by
Steve Albini.
flufs fab new longplayer
formats - CD/CASS/LP with an extra track if
you buy it on vinyl - watch for different
artwork & titles! (CD: Home Improvements;
CASS: Stocking The Lake With Brown
Trout, LP: WhHey On The Moon). The
cream of the San Diego scene!
SMUDGE Impractical Joke - Yeah, Yeah,
we've all heard what Aussie Tom Morgan
has done with Head Lemon Evan Dando.
Now hear Morgan & his band, SMUDGE.
This 5 song CDep prefaces their upcoming
LP Manilow & contains 4 exclusive tracks!
Yeah, Yeah, Yeah!
'Now V/ith Floating Slugs & Tiny Green Specks!
®Q@§8@Q®§8.@0@§8
HUEVOS RANCHEROS
MARCH i @ UBC PIT PUB   MARCH 4 @ HUHGRY EVE
FURNACEFACE
MARCH 10 @ UBC PIT PUB   MARCH II ® HARPD'S (Vietaria)
MARCH 12 @ TOWH PUMP
CHUNE
MARCH 29 @ TOWN PUMP   MARCH 31 @ UBC PIT PUB
CRAIN
APRIL 5 ® STARFISH ROOM
Maltaoc! New Album! Crusade! April!
Tie More You Buy, The More You Pay!"
Underselling Ourselves Since 1987"
Merlin
A unique hybrid of metal,
hip-hop,
soul and pop.
Includes
"A Noise Supreme", |
"Pushfir" kT^w
and "She Makes Me Work"'
F@CK THAT BULLSHIT SEATTLE SCENE March 1994
Issue #134
TPi
— Reveen the impossibilist
STAND GT
Of Tuning Forks and Chicken Coops...
....8
Airhead	
Cowshead Chronicles	
 5
 5
HOWARD RHEINGOLD
subtext	
 7
Whistling a New World Order Tune...
..10
Classical Beat	
 15
TIMOTHY LEARY
Tuning In To the Man Who Drop
ped
7"	
Vancouver Special	
 16
 18
Out	
.12
Under Review	
Real Live Action	
Spinlist	
On The Dial	
 19
 20
 21
 22
STUFF WE LISTENED TO >
Johnny Cash Live at Folsom Pns
He.id Flop The Great V.iledictio
Traversal of Route 7 Mark Lane
rVHIL
DnDa
n EPF
gan V
E PU
syCh
or Lc
VI:, Sl<
TTING THIS THING T(
ainsaw Eleventeen Deadbo
ve Not Lisa Merge Hoove
y for the Holy Ghost The L
JGETHE
ItShrunke
r The Lun
ee Harve
Oswald Band A Taste of Pnso
n Me
=it Bt
at Manifesto Asbestos Le.
d Asbesto
edRa
esBossanovaRedRedMea
limmvwin
TABOO
TRIBAL WARE
Body piercings and Branding by
Mike Bear Walsh
trained by Fakir Musafar
Taboo Tribal Ware By   Appt.   Only
is in the process of 	
relocating, and win Fully Guaranteed
temporarily be working on ' 7    /    ^ - *■ ■ ** ■ ■ ■ ~ - **
a house call basis. We're ft   A    7    •    A    1    ^   ft
sorry for any inconvenience. "VI w   A   w   V
m
She is the goddamnedest woman I've ever seen!
ON SALE THIS MONTH:
PAVEMENT o CrooikedRan&oo*erfRan $9^7LP/cass$14.92 CO
JAWBREAKER • 24 How Revenge rterapy. $8.78 LP/cass $13*1 CO
SLANT 6» Soda Po^ip Off....,
'1 FLUF ■ Home /mprovemenf.	
MOUNTAIN GOATS    Beat^ Rat Sunset...
....$839 LP/cass $10.96 CO
....$9.65 LP/cass $14.92 CO
 $8.78107CD
FLYING SAUCER AHACK ^sa^AnacL.
VICTIMS FAMILY "ftodateta* $9i7LP/cass$11.84 CD
PORTASTATIC ■ I Hope M Heart Is m m $9.87 LP/cass $13.81C0
VIC CHESTNUT ^ uticuhcd
CC NOVA 0 Mitalt Dispatch $13.81 CD
I-THE MIGHTY HUNTER
MI(<tkCDMdpidniiKmyl
M ZUMPANO
Lookmm Rookie Did
MlfM^thCOafMlcasfMttB March 1-5   TIM HEARSEY BAND
March 8-12   GARY PRIMICH
March 15-19   MITCH WOODS
and the ROCKIN' 88'S
March 22&23 THE VAQUEROS
March 24-26 AZAKIYA HOOKER
March29-April2   ELLEN MclLWAINE
DOH'J MISS MIKE JACOBS'MS:
SATURDAY 3-8 PM / SUNDAY BLUES MARATHON JAM 3PM - MIDNIGHT
MIKE JACOBS' JAMS ARE SPONSORED BY MOTHERS MUSIC AND THE DRUM SHOP
OPEN EACH NIGHT FROM 9:30 PM T01
OPEN WEEKDAYS FROM 11:30 AM
Call Linda at (604)822-3017 to get
DISCORDER distributed at your business. Enoughof this. Classical re-
great idea for your magazine
to at least recognise serious r
That writer, John Brunstein, how-
will do more toturn off poten-
ers and reinforce
stereotypes. His writing is dull. The
graphics are uninteresting. Get
some new writers to add the "attitude" found in such abundance on
the rest of your pages. Hey Faggot
would do if he knew half as much
about art-music as he probably does
the inside of your assholes. Get
Hey Faggot from Terminal City.
He's got the balls for the job.
Jim Gwanchook
Vancouver
andfuck-you attitude, " while you
argue that one of our columnists,
who hg± studied classical n
should be replaced by a writerwho
probably knows almost nothing
about the subject (but has "attitude " in spades). You, sir, are an
idiot. Please, continue to readTex-
minal City because they se
moving at your intellectual pace.
TARDS TURN UP IN THE
GOOD  NUDGE   IN  THE
COULD BEOFFANDRUN-
WORK TODAY AND TOLD
AND, AS HE HEADED UP
SEVEN FEET INTO THE
BOURS    YARD.    SHIT
RUNNING OUT AND, AP-
TAKE HER TO THE HOSPITAL. WORD IS SHELL
MOST OF HER HAIR HAS
FALLEN OUT DUE TO THE
WENDY SAYS I'VE GOT
TO STRAIGHTEN UP AND
DO SOMETHING WITH MY
GOTTA HELP AL LOAD
March ~^  s
u
B
T
E
X
T
SECRETS   ENTRUSTED
TO A FEW
ifi'j'ji.^mufl?
s bonanza this
Pixy
A Shroud for Waldo
Beyond the Pale!
I hopped on the Greyhound down
to Seattle last month and had a
swell mini-vacation. Highlights
included viewing rare Betty Boop
cartoons at the incredible Pike
Street Cinema, staying up late reading Roberta Gregory's comics and
watching the SuperBowl in a room
full of cartoonists. I visited die
Fantagraphics warehouse and was
given review copies of books I foolishly might have overlooked. Pixy
by Swede Max Andersson is one
title I had glanced at in the comic
shop but sniffed al the premise of a
beer-swilling, gun-toting aborted
child coming after his parents in a
wasteland future society. Naturally,
it turns out this book u a mind-
blowing work of art widi very dark
humour. Body image, power,
money, and the mighty blue and
yellow IKEA store all play a pari.
brother Simon). Although not very
familiar with Deitch's cartooning I
did recognize Waldo, his infamous
cat character, scruffy nude (genitals and all!) sod that he is.
I like Waldo so much, that
Deitch's other work holds less fascination for me, however Beyond
the Pale' is a fine collection hand
picked by the audior himself. Yet
for this new convert to Dietch's art
I can only recommend A Shroud
for Waldo as a place to begin. The
50 pages here were originally serialized in the L. A. Weekly in 89/90.
Oh the exquisite horror of having
lo wait 7 days between 'episodes'
Our man Waldo shares die stage
with Jesus and it turns out Waldo
was a very bad person in ancient
history bul I'll keep you in sus-
Now would be a greal time to
discover Deitch's work, cos
l'antagraphics are about to publish
a new 3 issue mini-series called
Waldo World (co written with his
brother Simon) and Boulevard of
Broken Dreams has also been re
quite impressed that an actual bandage had been pressed onto the covers image, alas I didn't purchase
the comic. Rather than feel guilty
about this, I can happily report that
Sputnik, Sin Comics and Dylan
Horrick's Pickle are now being
published by Black Eye and look
great. Sputnik is a new anthology
which will be released quarterly,
the first issue contains an illustrated interview with Bruce "Highway 61" McDonald and a profile
on Adrian Tomine whose Optic
Nerve mini-comic is on the mark
(as seen in Pulse! which you should
never buy here but pick up for free
at Tower records in the States).
Sputnik comes with a real-vinyl 45
and although mine was smashed up
during transit I consider the 'zine a
bargain at 5 bucks. I'm left wondering what "Daddy Carbon"
sounds like tho.
Sin Comics #1 by Jay
Stephens cuts between stories of a
cartoon cat and some sort of angst
ridden superghoul named Felix.
Pickle #2 by New Zealander Dylan
Horrocks faired much better. The
stories kicked off widi the quite
pitiful "The Fall of Captain Tomorrow," yet Pickle won me by die
end with true (perhaps) stories of
work and love.
Cartooning: The Head & Figure
(Perigee Books, 120 pgs, $10.50)
All hail Jack Hamm. This is the
man who's been making art study a
happy experience for people since
1963 when his instruction manuals
began to appear. Hamm's books
include loads of illustrations and
ideas on style. The work has an old
fashioned 30's feel which is so
"old" its "new" again. His books
are available at the library and I
came across my own copy at
Dulhie's downtown. Inspiration
doesn't usually come at this low a
price.
A******************
For goodness sake, don't
make any plans for Saturday. April. 30th cos that's
the dale lor Comix-A-Go-
Go at Ihe Video In (1965
Main). This will be a benefit fundraiser for the I.idle
Sisters Legal Defence Fund.
and will include loads of
The vice-president of
Fantagraphics hid his pity well
when I told him I wasn't very familiar widi the work of Kim Deitch,
and handed me/1 Shroud for Waldo
and Beyond the Pale! to set me
straight. Deitch first went pro in
the late 60's working for New
York's East Village Other magazine and developed his strongest
fan base after appearing in RAW
with the epic Boulevard of Broken
Dreams  (co-aulhored  wilh  his
printed. Very dreamy, old-fashioned art with treacherous under-
*.>* A ********** AAA***
Sputnik
(Black E>« Productions)
Black Eye arose from the ashes of
Tragedy Strikes Press, an Ontario
small comics press who picked the
wrong name. I remember seeing a
copy of their Sin comic and being
TRUE COMIX FACTS:
The husband and wife
^ani that I'd
bet my money on would be Bill
'Zippy' Griffith and his wife
Diane Nooniin: I recently got
Rip Off Press lo express me
Diane's True Glitz the utterly
devastating, fabulous tales of
Didi Glitz, socialite
extraordinaire. This comic is four
years old now bul still available!
Didi is of a 'certain age', and a
swinger. The situations are
funny-sad with cartoon sex galore ...Ion Lewis has published
True Swamp through his own
Peristaltic Press (it wasn't in my
dictionary). Nice job, lovely color
cover and the 'hero' is a frog.
The animals use an odd barter
system of trading thoughts of cities in place of payment — well
of course, where would they hold
their money (ha ha). Peristaltic
PO Box 95973, Seattle, Wa
98145...Big Mouth is drawn by
Pat Moriarty and written by
celebs. Number 3 features the
words of Bukowski, Rollins, P.
Bagge, Dave Greenberger and
even Penn & Teller. Rumour has
that Slash fellow from Guns and
Roses penning a strip...I doubt I
would ever purchase a comic titled Crap, but wilJ admit I enjoyed perusing JR Williams title
(the #2 issue at that) and was
surprised to see JR portray the
lives of five room-mates with
such hilarity and aplomb. Great
artist, juvenile title...Julie
Doucet's Leve Ta Jambe Mon
Poisson Est Mart! (lift your leg
my fish is dead!) is a collection
of her earliest mini-comix and
anthology art published by
Drawn and Quarterly...Now,
Endsville is a hilarious collection of cartoons by Carol Lay
published by Kitchen Sink. Lay
pokes fun at family relationships
and the title story involves ghosts
TRUe&LiTZ
and deception in love... I had
eagerly awaited Diva from
Starhead Comix (PO Box 30044,
Seattle, WA 98103) which features Fiona Smyth, Dame Darcy
and Ellen Forney. Ms. Smyth's
work has been collected in her
own hook Nocturnal Emissions
and I enjoy the big page reprints
inSnipehunt. Her tale here. Sugar
Sandwich, comes as a slightly
tnppy letdown. Dame Darcy.
queen of the Roller Derby whose
own Meat Cake comic is publisher! by that other Seattle comics co. is found here with dramatic odds and ends Ellen
Forney comes across as a real
toughie who wrestles her pals,
look for her own solo book Tomato to be published by Starhead
this Spring...I've been buying
The Comics Journal for about a
Caiman issue for me to finally
actually purchase one and I
can't recommend this magazine
highly enough. The letters column and editorials can be somewhat over the top. but in terms of
info on the comix world, you
can't do belter. For example the
Dec "93 issue featured interviews
with not only Michael ' Madman'
Woodring...Speaking of Madman the first three issues of
Allred's series have been collected by Kitchen Sink who until
now published this zany
superduper hero. Starting in
April Madman Comics will appear, published every second
month by Dark Horse...Babble-
On Press is new to Vancouver
and publishing Rubberneck a
collection of comix mostly by
Julian Lawrence which includes
an eye-opening look into the sordid world of panty hijinks in
Japan...Peter Kuper and Seth
Tobocman began the tres left-
wing World War 3 Illustrated
13 years ago. Kuper's innovative stencil style of cartooning is
an acquired taste for the reader.
He's completed five issues of
Bleeding Heart his mostly political somewhat autobiographical storyline for Fantagraphics
and in the coming months will
release IViM Kingdom which
promises more of the same and
erm.bunny rabbits...Colin Upton
and Roberta Gregory are among
those cartooning in Skunk a new
take-off on the "funny animal"
genre of comics, and keep a look
out for a collection of Ms.
Gregory's Naughty Bits this
Spnng.
what people are reading
Ever wonder What People are Reading? I
do. The fine staff of Discorder look lime
between edits, NBA JAM games, layout,
and long discussions on why Macs rale the
world, to write and tell subtext. Most of
them even put down their computer manuals for this assignment
The World of Pooh - A.A. Milne with
illustrations by F.. II. Shepard
See. with me it's either Pooh or feminist
theory and after silling/suffenng/sleeping
through Naked twice, I should probably
be working on my Naom i Wolf book rather
frolicking in Hundred Aker Wood,
bul there is just something aboul Pooh and
Piglet and Christopher Robin. Pixih is the
ultimate easy going, straight thinking,
problem solver and even though he is a
bear of little brain, he always seems lo gel
by somehow We should all be so lucky.
The perfect book for a rainy day or when
you are down. Pooh will make everything
better. Tiddley pom (Lane Dunlop)
Maurice - EM. Forster
movie by the astounding Mer-
chanl/lvory team originated as an excel-
ivel by one of their favourile au-
EM Forster. A humourous, disturbing, and, ultimately elating insight into
Ihe life of a homosexual Englisliman al Ihe
beginning of ilns century, Maurice was
written in 1913 bul lay unpublished until
Forte.', death in 1970 The best part
aboul Maurice is Ihe eternal optimism of
Us ending. Forster is always good for a
laugh, a lift, and a mental prod. Thanks Ed.
(Tama Alekson)
Even Cowgirls del the Blues - Tom
Robbins
I'm reading (or should 1 say Irving lo read
I have lo milch il from my roommate
whenever she puts it down) this in bils-
and-pieccs. but I like il so far. Il seems lo
be shaping up mostly as Ihe story of Sissy.
Inldihikcr supreme, bul there is also a lot
of lime spent al Ihe Rubber Rase Ranch.
Al the catch line on Ihe back says. That
have been many greal drivers, bul only
one greal pxssengcr" (Robin Beech>
Slacker - Richard ("Dick") l.inklaler
Oh, 1 know this is so unforgivingly "Generation X" of me. but I this us one of tlie
few print publications I've wanted lo own
in a long lime In fact, this hcxik is even
more enjoyable than tie movie itself: il
lends itself perfectly lo five-minute
browses. Linklater includes biographies
of Ihe cast based on his original inter-
incorporaled their own lives intolheircha
acters. Also included is a history of ll
film's production and long, slow road to
release and distribution Even enjoyed the
foreword by Doug Copeland. (Anthony
llempell)
Midnight's Children - Salman Rushdie
In 550 pages of luciously interwoven h
lory and mylli Rushdie breaks all former
molds and lakes us lo places our unaginations and intellects never knew existed
This hook is pure delight yet leaves me
depressed knowing lhat the aulhor lives in
hiding from a group of zealots who warn lo
ouilaw beauty 1 think I'll go read Winnie
the Pooh again (Ace Wakey)
Aldus PageMaker User Manual 5
A hefty 46X pages of raw eye popping data
from our good friends al Aldus Corp. Tlie
toy of knowledge is fast at band. So far I'm
about half way tlirough and. yes il is reading like st
mind that, as always, we have the best
interests of our readers in
we learn about our software, tlie quicker
we can pump out this lovely magazine lo
you Ihe people. Did I mention ue do beta
testing'! (Mark Pi lorn
March -*i^ By: Grant Lawrence
Just an hour outside of the
frothing, cultural metropolis of Montreal is a wee,
Scottish burg on the Ontario-Quebec border. A
completely rural farming
community, Glengarry, Ontario boasts of two major
exports: corn...and Canadian punk rock misfits, the
Stand GT. Members of this
hick, backwoods, Canadiana
band actually live on farms,
crop corn (or is that husk?)
and go so far as to even
practice their melodic form
of pop rage in a chicken
coop!
Though true to their
Glengarry roots, Montreal
is Stand GT's gigging
homebase and where they
first garnered modest attention through two 7" releases on Montreal's En
Guard Records. On the
strength of those records
the band hit the road for a
couple of cross Canada
tours, even managing to
head south to Seattle. It was
there where Top Drawer
Records fell in lust with the
group and quickly offered
to put out the Stand GT's
first international release.
On their last X-coun-
try tour Discorder managed
to tie down a couple of the
rural rock'n'rollers...
\ iscorder: Who am I talking to?
m Chris and I play guitar and attempt vocals...
m Glen, I play drums. We're missing Colin, our new bass
player, and Doug, our lead guitarist/ vocalist.
What's with the new bass player?
C: Unfortunately, the day before we left [on tour] our old bassist phoned
us and said he couldn't make it, for reasons unknown. He flipped us all out
since he left it to 24 hours before we left.
Needless to say, you're furious at the guy?
G: Extremely. I don't ever want to lay eyes on him again.
C: We don't like to sling shit so we decided we'd keep this, sort of, low-
profile but we do have things to get off our chests.
Obviously touring is a huge commitment.
G: 100%. Especially setting it up.
C: What initially crossed my mind was all the kids setting up all-ages
shows. It's one thing to cancel a bar show but when it's all-ages show, like
a lot of these shows have been, it's we who are really screwing over the
promoter. Our credibility would have been nil right across the country.
I first heard of you guys, as the Stand, on the last of the infamous Og
Records compilations, It Came From Canada V. Why did you add the
"GT"?
G: Confusion. Bar bands. There are a lot of bar bands called the Stand.
And the GT added a little pop-culture to your name?
C: Exactly. Sort of like the Dinosaur Jr. thing.
Let's talk about your sound. I've heard all sorts of comparisons in
describing the Stand GT. Everything from Descendants and Hiiskrr
Du to power pop and '60's garage.
G: Well, all of our early gigs were widi the Gruesomes in Montreal.
C: They were so nice to us, they helped us out by pointing us in the right
direction. We were definitely '60's garage when we started out.
Did you guys do the whole look: the Beatles' mop-tops and black
leather vests?
C: We dabbled... I had die haircut.
G: Doug had the vest and he's always had a bowl haircut. In grade one
8   ^iscofn/e^
Doug had a Gruesomes' haircut.
Who are some of your fave international combos these days?
G: Uncle Tupelo are one of my absolute favourites.
C: We love Bum, Superchunk, Superconductor, Rocket From the Crypt...
But what about your bizarre choice of covers on your 7" singles?
Whereas most bands will cover their favourite punk rock songs, you
guys have gone and covered a Billy Bragg song and a couple of Pogues
songs!
C: Yeah, "Boys From The County Hell" and "If I Should Fall From Grace
With God" are both Pogues songs. Glengarry, ON, is almost completely
Scottish so we've sort of met our Celtic roots half way.
G: That was the whole point of covering those songs. We took songs that
would make whacked-out covers, anybody can cover an MC5 song or the
Rolling Stones. There's no point in covering a song unless you can make
How's the Montreal scene these days?
C: Terrible. There's no place to play. The problem with Montreal is that it's
very cliquey. You've got our label, En Guard, in one corner, Ihe Doughboys
crowd in another, the Asexuals over in another... people would just rather
go to discotheques. When the It Came From Canada compil;
happening
the Montreal
great, vibrant. Now I
that out here on die West Coast
and in the Maritimes and we
pretty
You guys sure tour a lot You
just here in August, and that's rare for
an independent band from so far away
to be out here again
C: We love to tour. We' ve come out here diree
times now and we've done two Maritii
What was your
C: Oh, it's gotta be High wood '93! The cheque
Paul Hughes [organizer/promoter/shit-sack] gave us bounced
had his account frozen!
G: I was totally flat-busted broke for the entire tour because of him.
C: We're totally pissed. How can this guy... I mean, when he was signing
cheques he knew exactly what he was doing cuz everyone we've talked
have had their cheque bounce. How could he do thai?! He can't get away
with that!!!
Let me ask you about your hometown. Is it true you practice in a
chicken coop?
G: Fact.
C: Since 1985 we've been practising in my chicken coop. It's on my
parent's farm.
That's very Buddy Holly. Arc there chickens in the coop?
C: No, but there are a multitude of beet bottles dial are all covered in mould
right now. And in the summer we can't practice without heavy-duty
repellent or we're eaten alive by mosquitoes.
Nardwuar says you, Stand GT, owe it all to David Wisdom. Is that
G: Who the hell is David Wisdom?
David Wisdom hosts a show on CBC radio called "Nightlines" [Friday
and Saturday, 11 pm-4 am] but here's the story: the editor of Cryptic
Tymes magazine, a Sir Cryptic AL was on "Nightlines" and gave out
his address. Through that interview Cryptic Al met a girl through the
mail, named Lisa. He later married her and moved to her hometown
of Seattle. It was there that Cryptic Al gave a tape of the Stand GT to
Seattle's Top Drawer Records, who have now signed you guys. Therefore, as Nardwuar points out, YOU, the Stand GT, owe it all to David
Wisdom.
Both: OOoo...Wow! Hooray for the CBC!
C: We were so excited when Top Drawer got in touch with us. I had been
sending out tape after tape when all of a sudden a cool label from SeatUe
writes us and actually wants to do a record! It was great!
Tell me about the huge show you played in Seattle.
G: The Fastbacks and Bum at the Crocodile Cafe! It was cool. It was
nuts! It was the biggest show of our lives. When Bum played
all just standing at the front of the stage going, "Oh my God
this is the greatest." And then when the Fastbacks c;
1 to stand on chairs to see 'em, it was so packed!
But what about the "star"?!
C: Okay, I was standing there and one of Ihe Top
Drawer guys goes "Jesus, would ya look at that!".
/£$<. It was Duff Mc K agan from Guns and Roses,
who, of course, was Ihe Fastbacks"
original drummer back in the
'70's. The guy had poofy
hair with a silk scarf
ind his neck, a
basic glam-
rock get
up, and he
irm, too. This
guy is one of the biggest
:k stars of the world and he's at
gig! I was blown away, even though die
guy's a jerk and I hate him.
G: And he got up on stage for the Fastbacks' encore
which was amazing history since that's the original lineup of that band.
Hey, go to Seattle and see the stars!
copy of their greal March -*^ MC). Relaying his own experiences on the San Francisco-based
WELL (Whole Earth 'Lectroaic Link), author Rheingold describes
a phenomenon thai is both ironic, considering the de/anti-
buman(izing) nature of technology, yet welcoming. "There is
power in the broadcast paradigm when you can give people access
to large bodies of useful information.... But the community-
building power comes from the living database that the participants create and use together, informally, as they help each other
solve problems, one to one and many to many. The web of human
relationships that can grow along with the database is where
potential for cultural and political change can be found."
Rheingold also discusses the origins of our current CMC systems
(TnterNet, BBSes) and how passivity, derived from our
mesmerization with the technology Bill Microsoft and the gang at
AT&T are touting, will have an irreversible effect on the informa-
ailable to us, which in mm we may upload to our on-line
community. You've seen the ads: Have yi
fax from the beach? Have you ever borrowed a book from
thousands of miles away? Have you ever tucked your kid in from a
phone booth? It's bard not to be a fan of the promised technology.
"As commercial organizations—including two of the biggest
corporations in the world, IBM and AT&T—take over management
of the Net from government institutions, who will gain and who
will be denied access? Who will make policy aboul what
or do in the Net? Who will arbitrate disagreements about
on-line behav
Rheingol
II
Parent, editor of The Whole Earth Catalogue, journalist and
consultant to the Clinton/Gore administration's foray into the fibre
optic infostructure, Rheingold was in Vancouver recently speaking
on Virtual Reality, but not before communicating, albeit offline,
with Discorder magazine.
Rheingold: The Virtual Reality business has brought me to all
sorts of places around the world over a more extended period to
talk about the subject but this has been the most intense and
extensive author's tour. It has to do, partially, with the fact that I
was smart a couple years ago when I started on this and partially
because luck is with me; all of these issues that were really kind of
technical issues a couple years ago are now in the forefront. The
Virtual Community presents a point of view that's quite a bit
different from what we're hearing in all the digital superhighway
hype that the big companies are putting out and it's different from
the national information infrastructure—I wouldn't call it hype-
proposals—that the Clinton/Gore administration is putting out. So
thai alternative voice comes at a good time.
If totalitarian manipulators of population and technologies
actually do achieve dominance in the future I predict thai it will
begin not by secret police kicking in your doors but by allowing
you to sell yourself to your television and letting your supermarket
sell information about your transactions, while outlawing measures
you could use to protect yourself. Instead of just telephone taps the
weapons will include computer programs that link bar codes, credit
cards, social security numbers, and all the other electronic telltales
we leave in our paths through the information society. And the
most potent weapon will be the laws, or absence of laws, thai
enable improper uses of information technology to erode what is
left of citizens' rights to privacy.
Discorder: With analyses like that aren't you jeopardizing your
relationship with the Clinton/Gore administration and big
business?
"Hyper-realists see the use of communications
technologies as a route to the total replacement
of the natural world and the social order with a
technically mediated hyper-reality, a 'society of
the spectacle' in which we are not even aware that we work all day to earn money to pay for entertainment media that tell us what to desire and
which brand to consume and which politician to believe.... To the hyper-realists CMC, like other communications technologies of the past, is doomed
to become another powerful conduit for disinfotainment. While a few people will get better information via high-bandwidth supernetworks, the majority
of the population, if history is any guide, are likely to become more precisely befuddled, more exactly manipulated."
- excerpt from Virtual Community, by Howard Rheingold
"If a BBS (computer Bulletin Board System) isn't a democratizing
technology," claims Rheingold, "there is bo such thing. For less
than the cost of shotgun a BBS turns an ordinary person, anywhere
in the world, into a publisher, an eyewitness reporter, an advocate,
an organizer, a student or teacher, and potential participant in a
worldwide citizen-to-citizen conversation. The technology of
personal telecommuni
10   Gfti&cofnle^
and the rich, diverse BBS culture that
is growing on every continent today were created by c$tj*ens, not
Doomsday weapon designers or corporate researchers.,.tbere is nc
way to stamp out the BBS subcultures unless you shut down the
telephone system or go back to the 1970s and un-invent the
microprocessor."
Well, I'm way out in left field—not left in terms of left and right
politics, but I'm an independent journalist—nobody owns me. I
would be happy to consult for a big company but I'm going to tell
them about the world as I s«e it, In fact, that's the value of hiring
someone like me. I must add, upon talking with a lot of people
about this and trying to see where we could get some kind of deal between public opinion, the government and big business, that I'm
not anti-big business. I think that if you really want to democratize
this median so it's not just people who can afford the CompuServe
accounts then you have to have ihe economies of scale that these
large companies wilh their huge infrastructures can bring to this.
Unequivocally now, perhaps more so than when I wrote the book,
it's clear that government can't provide this. People don't want to
pay taxes to support the technology they don't understand even
though it might, ultimately, save tens of billions of dollars in
health care costs, welfare costs and local government costs. It's
just too esoteric for people lo buy it, I think it
has to be privatized. The question is, will we
have a diverse system. If I have a bias it's
towards diversity. Competition among a large
number of providers is healthy and having that
large number of people participating in discourse
is better than having a few gatekeepers of the
mass media managing the discourse. I would like
to see some kind of deal where the large
companies (the Bell/Atlantics, the TCls, ihe
Time/Warners, the Paramounts) can be
deregulated to cut them loose to provide this, but
regulated to the degree that they are forced to
provide a public interest common carrier channel
so that you and I and a million other people can
;nls worth in. The downside
there, there's a lot of noise,
le paying attention to stuff
anybody who wants to put their two <
of that is that there's a lot of junk ou
and you'd be wasting a lot of your lii
that you don't want to pay attention t
On the other hand, on the Usent
command. "Okay, this guy is a probli
never hear from that person again. If you want
you want them to not hit that K-key. If all you want to d<
and rave then, well, everybody can turn you out. Why pn
people from ranting and raving if we can prevent having
you've got the "kill"
i," hit the K-key and you
influence people
r video BBS, <
ir little
«paper o
Or, you know, there are a jil
bands out there who don't have a<
means of music distribution, why
on ihe Net? If they can find 400,
4,000,000 listeners, fine, let the r
decide. I really
garage
• the
not let them go
»r 4000, or
larketplace
fair market-
e being a mechanism that can mediate
between a lot of different competing sources. I don't believe that a
marketplace is a fair marketplace if it's controlled by a few large
interests. I'd like to see the large interests, the medium-sized
companies, the mom-and-pop businesses and the small businesses
and citizens all have some access to this new media. The technology gives us an enormous abundance of bandwidth. It's not like in
1934 when the FCC was created because of the scarcity of tlie
airwaves. We now have abundance. Let's have competition in that
abundant bandwidth.
I think Discorder'& audience is one who probably understands
that desktop publishing did not put the big newspapers out of
business but it did make ten thousand little 'zines on all kinds of
fractions, all kinds of subcultures and all kinds of fringe groups. It
gave them power to reach their people and form communities. I
think that's an example that people in the pop culture world can
understand. The independent music scene is now very different
from when rock 'n' roll became big business and you had to be
discovered by the big boys. Now, being discovered by the big boys
is what you have to do if you want to make a billion dollars but
there are a lot of bands that are making a decent living because
they have communications and access to people. If we could put
the music out there, the video out there, the publications out there
in a distribution channel, where you could find three people in
Singapore and sixteen people in Rio and forty people in Calgary,
then you're in business. I think that's exciting. If F have a bias it's
towards the wisdom of a regulated democracy. I say regulated
democracy because I don't think that turning everything over to
the mob is the answer either.
es begin to clash with offiim
ual Rape, Virtual Terror-
What happens when VR txperien
moral standards, Tor instance, Vii
ism, Virtual Murder?
In regards to Virtual Reality, I think that we have (to ask] some
real ethical and mora] questions about allowing people to perform
immoral acts that don't have consequences in the electronic world.
I have a bias against censorship because I think that rules are
something that a small group of people make and a large number
of people find ways to get around. Although I think there is a
problem with censorship, the problem is less of riglil or wrong. I
think that censorship is wrong. I'm not absolute about it but it's
less of right and wrong. It just can't be done effectively unless
you're gonna recall all of tlie computer chips in the world and tap
on every phone in the world. Otherwise, bow are you going lo
If it's uncool to do something then you see a lot less of il. On
the Net we do have something that I wouldn't call censorship but
is censorship; we have moderated newsgroups. A moderated
newsgroup is one where anybody can post but the moderator
decides whether it's appropriate or not. The fact of the matter is
a modi
material, ihey
people towards mo
that we should elir
willing to stand tin
vsgroup and nobody sends you offensive
vhere. They have one cause, and ihey want
in towards their cause, and that drives
sd newsgroups. 1 don't think that means
: unmoderated newsgroups. If you're
e you can get the raw, unfiltercd input of
attention to it. I think attention is the most powerful
have and we should use more of that and fewer rules. More norms.
If rules are necessary I think they should emerge from a prolonged
and uncensored debate because we don't know much about this
medium yet. By making rules about it we're going to drive a lot of that
force underground.
I particularly enjoyed the ides-of-Marcb forecasting in the
latter part of your book? Are you going to be pursuing more of
this writing in the nest book [ The Millennium Whole Earth
Catalogue]?
The premise behind the Whole Earth Catalogue is that people have
lost their trust in large institutions, be it government or the church
or the corporations, to solve their problems. But we have powerful
tools in the world today. If we make those tools accessible to
people they will build better lives for themselves and they will,
from the grassroots, have more effect on building a better world
than working from the top down. So, in a sense, I am putting into
practise what I've talked about in the last chapter of the book,
which is to put the tools in the hands of people and trust that we'll
build something better because of the diversity. It's certainly true
in biological and ecological systems. A diverse system is a flexible
and robust one and a monoculture is one that can be manipulated
and wiped out very easily.
I must say that I've never been, primarily, a political
person—I'm not one who has gone to meetings or joined political
parties. The poiiticai conclusions that I reach in the book surprised
me. When I started to write the book aboul this wonderful culture
that I participated in. and the more I thought, talked, read and-
interviewed people aboul where it was all leading, ihe more I
realized that we're at one of those choice points that probably
happened generations ago. But people didn'l have the media we
have now and we have a unique opportunity lo spread the word
that choices are being made and they're going to affect our future.
You don't have to start a left-wing BBS or a right-wing BBS. just
start doing your own communicating—take the means of production of information, entertainment, news and the distribution of
that information into your own bands and let's see what happens
We've already seen what happens the other way in Ihe age of the
mass media, let's try a new experiment...unless we try we'll never
When considering what lies in store with megacorporations
taking more control of the Nets, 1 find your statement, "The
Net is not only InterNet. You could shut down all the hosts on
InterNet and millions of people would still find ways to
exchange e-mail and newsgroups," very comforting.
It is comforting. It's not entirely impossible. We could be forced
to get licenses to run BBSes as it said in the book you had to get
a license from the government to ruu one in Japan until 1985.
There could be a new political regime, in any country, tomorrow
that could decide that this is dangerous and "we're going to listen
for digital tones, and if we find you doing il (hen you go lo jail and
we fine you." There are a lot of people in the world, myself
included, that think this business with unfettered gun ownership
has gone amok in the US. But the business belief in citizen
ownership of guns is that it keeps the government honest. Well,
as we're seeing with the fall of communism and political coups
all over the world, guns no longer have the power that communications have. The modem is the militia gun of this new revolution. Let's just make sure that no one takes it away from us. As
long as we maintain that I think that there's real hope.
In your travels have you found European hackers more
overtly political?
I think ihe politics of most hackers is anarchy...there's a real
dilemma there. The system, InterNet, is largely based on trust and
destroying that trust is dangerous to the whole system. I don't
think it's innocent exploration to ditch somebody's files or bring
their computer system down, it's a crime and it should be
prosecuted. However, I don't believe that a fourteen year-old kid.
who doesn't know much about the world, ought to be sent to
prison, where they can learn to be real criminals, for doing that. I
think we need some more creative solutions in regard to
sentencing. I also think that law enforcement needs to play by the
rules. You're not supposed to be ahle to break into innocent
people's homes and drag them off without having a reasonable
cause and a search warrant, you shouldn't be able to do that
electronically either. I don't want to see people using the Nets to
commit terrorist acts. I don't want to see them using the nets to
destroy other people's property, I don't want to see them using
the Nets to destroy the Nets. But I don't want to see that freedom
destroyed by our fear of those predators. I think we need to come
up with some rational solution. I don't pretend to know what that
Was AT&T-New York's nine-hour breakdown, a few years
back, a ploy to get tae Secret Service onboard with the hacker
threat?
I think it's very unlikely. I think that if this was caused by
hackers we would have seen headlines about it. 1 wouldn't quote
this as the gospel because I can't give you the exact citation but,
as I understand, it was caused by a couple of little AT&T code
patches to their system. You've got such an enormously complex
software system that no matter how much you test it it's got a
bug. okay? You fix that bug &s<i it's going to create a "condition," that in some unique circumstance six months or six years
down the line, crashes the whole thing. We're dealing with
another matter here. We're dealing with critical systems like
hospitals and airports depending on incredibly complex software
systems that nobody really understands. If you've got ten million
lines of code, by God, you can't predict every possible interaction
that might happen. We're living in a world in which we're
increasingly vulnerable to the complexity of our own technology.
We may be up against a real physical limit in the world. If we
make something that's so complex we're going to have lo live
with crashes. What we need to do is build redundant systems:
spend more money, make it less cost-effective, cut into the
profits, but make sure that when it goes down you've got another
sysl
n that c
e up.
March <*r£ nn
LJIJ
"In the beginning was the t
urn on...the turn
things were made from the ti
rn on and witrjjfl her not anvthing
was made.'
Dr. Timothy Leary kick
■d off his Western
tour at the UBC SUB auditor
to  hear  him  speak,  his w
>rk   spans  four  d
powerfully influenced miilio
ns of peopl
How about Elvis?
What about Elvis?
ier or not you agree with his decidedly left brain theories
t be denied that he is a highly educated man with some
s secular and esoteric knowledge backing up his unique.
Hional catch phrases. JntwoH
sten, I'm so senile I don't remember what was going
last time at this time, so let*s go easy.
Regardless, il wouldn't be far from the truth to suggest that Leary
practically spawned the sixty's drug counter-culture (he warned:
the word drug freezes people like a "Pavlovian dog to a
conditioned reflex", says Leary) and emerged as the closest thing
to a hierophant that the movement had. Tlie object of phenomenal
media attention, his groundbreaking research in terribly taboo
fields and the consequent "conversion" of thousands of formerly
law-abiding citizens sent the establishment for a loop. They
labelled him "the most dangerous man on earth" and have
documented his every m< >ve since his researches with LSD began.
What about Brian Wilson? Would he be the same today
If ho hadn't done ISO in the eo's?
I'm a kindly man. I try to say nothing negative about
anyone but I've always considered Brian Wilson to be
a pathetic moron. It's not his fault. The DNA, you
know...we have to have morons out there. I don't
think he is a child molester, or anything evil, but his
elevator doesn't reach the top floor.
i! h.
The only hope is
dope • What did
humanity do before
pizza? • Hell is a bum
trip • I am Dr.
Timothy Leary and
the law does not
apply to me •
Biology is more
woman than man
At the ripe age of seventy-four, Leary can now
enjoy the fruits of his labour. Before his time in the
sixties, he comes into his own in the nineties as
"real" researchers discover that there's some truth
to chaos theory and this zany marriage of traditional
science and ancient mysticism. Today, he
collaborates with Al Jourgensen [Ministry}, tours
with Lollapalooza, and spends his leisure time wilh
E
langerous man at least he's the toughest. He
; kidnapped by American agents in Afghanistan, made daring
;on escapes at least twice, proved you can be spiritually
ightened and still live in Beverly Hills, and worked with the
st progressive, smartest artists and scientists in this century.
e held my own with the justice Department, the FBI, the CIA,
•Weather Underground, the Al-Faiah in Algiers (they kidnapped
i also.) and prison guards in twenty-nine prisons on three
iiinents."  He  was sentenced to thirty years  in  prison for
.sesmg two joints ol marijuana (his bail was set at five million
dollars) and was field in solitary confinement for
>nlh^MJaffiUjmH'ed transmissions
was   married   to   Lima
ivhM;   a   psychedelic
;nce at all limes, has lunched with everyone
Do you  still have  a  mindblowing
experience once a week?
I'm hawing one right now, I'll tell you.
Happily, the movement he helped start has gained
so much momentum and grown so widespread that
it seems to have affected a degree of change in the
societal climate. In this balmier clime, his ideas
(and all other deviant cosmologies, from Reich to
Rollins) are no longer so much of a threat to the
I've met Frank Sinatra, who is a very
mafioso!
Dave Pirner [Soul Asylum] and god-daughter Winona Ryder.
For fun he continues to lecture to people around the globe
and prepare humanity for cosmic conciousness. In these
troubled times Leary is still a welcome "hope dealer," a chaos
engineer and dissident philosopher. He encourages us to
"boot up our divinity," "program our own bio-computer" and,
most importantly, to S M I2 L E (Space migration + Increased
Intelligence + Life Extension - the expansion of the human
species into all space time). What did humanity do before
Timothy Leary?
Everybody knows that every politician is corrupt
and is interested in only one things themselves.
And that there is a global sense of suffering and
grief because we hate to lose our ideals. But at the
turn of the century a new species will be bom. It is
going to be born... it is a global language which will
be based on Nintendo...
Born in 1920 in Springfield, Massachusetts, Leary's life seemed
to start when he was thirty-five. Before that he was a "roodess
city dweller...an anonymous institutional employee who
drove to work each morning in a long line of commuter cars."
A former Army psychologist, he began his world famous
experiments with LSD and psilocybin at the Centre for
Personality Research, Harvard University.
Nobody knows what acid is. My advice is do not go
out and get acid from someone who walks up to you
in a bar in a trench coat and says, "Here's some
add." Like anything else that is precious in life,
you should know what you're doing. If you're going
to share this experience, do it with someone who
shares your spiritual ambitions.
As a result, everyone from the newly emerging hippies to
clerics and their wives began ex|xrimenting with concious-
altering drugs in order to implement a rise in planetary
intelligence. Now some may argue that doing drugs is stupid,
not smart, but Leary only advocates responsible, ritualistic
drug use_"a disciplined mystical experience involving
withdrawal from social games and interactions." Leary calls
these drugs "conical vitamins." As anyone who has taken
psychedelic drugs will attest, there are "galaxies within the
mind." Take a mind-altering drug and there you are knocking
at that archetypal door which opens to worlds visited by
millions that have gone before you.
fs Prozac the legal LSD of the '90s?
Where do you get these questions? Do you have
committees of monkeys that type them out for you?
I'm not an expert on legal drugs. Basically, I don't
like legal drugs. Just think of it. If the government
legalizes a drug there's got to be something wrong
with it. Think about it...al
Leary spouts age-old principles clothed in a model for this
generation. Psychedelics provide a short cut to the "post-
terrestrial circuits" only previously accessed by years of Yoga
science, or what have you. Instant rapture for the I-want-it-
now generation. During the psychedelic experience, Leary
beleives you "die and are reborn." In the important in-
between space, when our "imprinted neurological games"
are suspended, we can imprint new games.
Let's go back to Prozac for a moment. I'm fascinated
that they are learning more about the brain because
the brain is a series of a hundred billion computers.
I think it's wonderful that there are these chemicals
that are obviously designed by DNA to make the
brain react this way. So, although I am not giving
product endorsements about Prozac, I think, in
general, the idea is good.  But,
off  it.   I  think  any  psychoactive,   psychedelic. lM@Ui t
Photographs by Lincoln Clarkes • Fractal imaging by Randy I<
psychological drugs should not be sold. It's almost
like selling pardonsi like the priest you see sowing
sacraments. I think they should be regulated by
society. Certainly young people shouldn't take
them but the very idea of selling psychoactive
drugs is worse than prostitution, in a sense, and I
haven't thought this   all the way through...so be
Even beginning to view our daily activites as games is the first
step to detaching ourselves from neurosis, fear of failure etc.
Leary provides us with a seven dimensional "game model:"
1. roles being played;
2. rules tacitly accepted by all players;
3. strategies for winning (or the masochistic winning by
losing);
4. goals of the game;
5. language of the game;
6. characteristics of space/time location;
7. characteristic movements   in space time.
Looking at our day-to-day experiences on society as a whole
in this manner enables us to make a lateral jump in our
thinking that broadens our perceptions and allows us to live
Because LSD has the propensity to erase the proverbial
chalkboard, in the wrong hands it is potentially the most
"potent brainwashing agent in the world." That's why Leary
wrote the Two Commandments^for the Nuclear age:
1. Thou shalt not alter the conciousness of thy neighbor
without their consent.
2. Thou shalt not prevent thy neighbor from altering
their o
What the computer and quantum physics has made
clear to us, and what neurology has made clear to us,
is that the basic nature of the universe is chaos. Our
minds think we can't understand it. Computers can't
help us. I think that psychedelic drugs allow you to
fine tune. You want crazier? Hey, you want the walls
to breathe? The ability to precisely and safely design
your own hallucinations and communicate them using
the new multimedia stuff is a big breakthrough and
that will be the language of the future.
Unfortunately, Leary can't be everywhere and recreational users
are left to their own devices. Everyone who has experimented
with these drugs can think of at least one time when they have
"broken." Try to explain to someone who has never taken acid
what it feels like to have a piece of steel inserted inside your face
from eye to lip, or to live in a world full of black glass for awhile.
Fortunately, we always come back from these states, although
sometimes a little worse for wear. These kind of nasty experiences
be represented...come home in glory..."
Leary also outlines the eight circuits of the human n
system — four terrestrial circuits, and four post-terrestrial circuits
which are evolving for use in outer space. The first four deal with
"Newtonian time, the whole 'square' mentality...producing an
'adjusted' adult with one personality and one system of
coordinates...usually conservative and mildly (or extremely)
paranoid." The latter four deal with quantum time and conciousness,
ESP, super-intelligence, out-of-body experience etc.. These circuits
can be imprinted by drugs, sensory deprivation, shock or near
death experience and advanced Yoga techniques. He has written
in detail in many of his books about these circuits and they are
worth looking into if you have the time.
He also predicted the invention of the G pill, a "dying
enzyme" that simulates the death experience (see: Brainstorm, an
early-eighties sci-fi starring Christopher Walken). He also predicted
an immortality pill, or one that would at least extend life to four or
five hundred years. He started, among many others, the L5 society:
a group of scientists determined to establish the first space city and
achieve immortality in this century. I find these possibilities
horrifying; the thought of a five hundred year old Micheal Jackson.
Barbara Bush or Brenda is too much bear.
I„- Io+Pd+M>: (New intelligence - old intelligence + deliberate program for self change + mctaprogramming substance)
not the norm.   Bad trips are the result of:
1. negative mental states al the time of taking the drug;
2. negative surroundings during the drug trip;
3. impurities in the drug (strychnine, tiny tart etc..)
Adm
n(vi
B3)s.
■ffective cure
however, these drugs
These two commandments were, of course, wholly ignored
by government officials. Leary's worst fears were realized
when the CIA's irresponsible drug experiments on innocent
North Americans severely traumatized the subjects in a
horrifying sci-fi mind rape.
Did JFK ewer do acid?
I don't know, they say he did.
But you "dropped" with Marilyn Monroe, didn't
you?
On the positive side, Leary's ethical therapy sessions with his
many famous and not-so-famous personal patients, his
followers at the Millbrook Ashram, and volunteers in an
e prison rehabilitation program met with remarkable
I was in the cell next to Manson for one night.
Legends have developed about that. He did not give
me any drugs. I would not take any drug from
anyone who does not have the qualities in their eye
that I want from that drug. So I never took drugs
from Manson. This is "Tim's Tips to the Young,"
okay? Don't take drugs from Manson.
for a bum trip. In a positive «
allow us to literally "design new realities" and show us alternate
ways at looking at/ex[x-riencing things.
Leary's interest in LSD has been over-emphasized. LSD is
simply "a tool for focusing in on and fine-tuning the human
nervous system. Each nerve impulse acts as an information bit in
our bio-chemical electric computer." Amongst multitudes of
other essays and books, Leary wrote Info-1'sychohgy, a "manual
on the use of the human nervous system according to the
instructions of the manufacturers and a navigational guide for
piloting the evolution of the individual." Leary encourages us to
"study, learn and prepare if you are going to mess with your
Are you the Hugh Hefner of LSD?
Now that is t
award? You've got the award! I want to congratulate
you. I have been interviewed thousands of times, and
I have met the greatest, professional, crazed
interviewers, and you are right up there. You're the
»se and paradigm theory by
Intermittent  neuron-bursts  by
Nardwuar the Human Serviette
I would like to think that in this dav and age you can explore the
possibilities of your own mind without the use of drugs. The sum
of other peoples' psychedelic endeavours have infiltrated the
collective unconcious where, consequently, we till learn from
the collective experience. This then manifests on a concious
level as well. Via JimiHendrix or virtual reality we can begin to
understand, or even have, a psychedelic experience without
taking drugs.
Leary subscribes to even more heretical philosophies.
Namely, that it is the goal of the human species "to produce a
serially imprinting, multi-brained creature that deciphers its own
programs and decodes the aging sectors of our DNA (assuring
lity) until it produces a nervous system capable of using
itself as an instrument." Our
"evolutionary blueprint" is the
double helix DNA
(programmer)   and   RNA  (the
■ting principal of DNA).
which    he
belie
There were zero psychotic breaks, no suicide.'
negative effects on anyone he treated. People w«
very carefully through the egoless state which i.<
that Leary describes as "chaos."
j neuro physical signal sent
[s to us from higher intelligences
■*^»*^»*^»*^»*^HfMfMDMfa»r from elsewhere in the I Iniverse.
He claims to have had contact
with these ultra-terrestrials who tell him to tell us to neurologically
prepare ourselves to meet with our "interstellar parents" with
whom we share the galaxy. They tell him, among other things
(Starseed transmissions, July 23. 1973), to "assemble the most
intelligent, advanced, and courageous of vour species equally
divided between men and women    Let every religion and race
Okay, here's something simple. Do the guys with LSD
get the most chicks ?
The vulgar sordidness of that question is Olympic.
Getting chicks? I mean, what does that mean? Getting
chicks. That is a very vulgar 50's term. Man, you are
out of it! You are really out of it !
Nowadays, Leary talks a lot about chaos, which seems to have
some validity. In a nutshell, chaos is "complex events that appear
to be random, but which are really organized by some hidden
His talk touched on old ideas and new: that language
alienates: that the basic function of evolution is the small group:
and that the number one cause of dehumanization is the repression
of women and children or the gang mentality. He's hip to multimedia artistry and raves. Really, he has so much to say, how can
he begin to say it all? As a result, his talk was a little unfocused
at times. He'd keep going off on the most endearing tangents and
then come back to his main point but not before making a good-
natured joke aboul his senility. He is, without a doubt, the most
Is G. Gordon Liddy the
What is all this bullshit
anti-Timothy Leary?
about "anti?" Anti-Christ, anti-
God, anti-Devil.... There is no such thing as anti-
Timothy Leary. You're betraying a feudal, if not worse,
theology here. The anti-Timothy Leary, argh. I'll get
him and I'll put him on a fucking cross, and I'll put a
sword through his side and I will make him a crown of
thorns, baby. Are you born a Christian?
After the show (despite doctors orders to rest | he could not be
dissuaded from going for burgers and beer with the "kids." The
kids (including a former guru of Leary's from India who did
nothing, but still had a publicist) swarmed around him and lined
up out the door, each wilh a gilt, a book for him to sign, or a well
thought out question or message. Even if you onlv have Leary's
attention for a split second he looks you right in the eyes and you
know that his is genuinely interested in you ami what you have
to say. He loves everybody ami. in return, is blessed with a
multitude of friends and followers the world over.
I found it ironic that this man who so fervently believed in
.md hoped lor immortality should finally age, after appearing not
to for so long. On the bright side, one gets the sense that he
already is immortal and that Timothy Leary is just something of an
If I sound overly optimistic it's because Leary s enthusiasm
is contagious. He says, "You don't have to keep relating the
same old misery imprints, you can become immortal and go to the
stars... Trust the evolutionary process   It's all going to turn out all SAMS
INDIE STREET
--*
ROCK FOR CHOICE
Indie Street was
brought to you by:
Various Artists
CAN'T FIND IT? SAM'S has Western Canada's Lamest Selection and Most Comprehensive Request Service
iyA!.%f£fi^ irililllKltAXSMlGAXIL ttaflfl
l\lIOMli^m^ 1IU,/  l\b^j^/Jlll^V^/
*^-Xv%
ello music lovers
everywhere, it's almost time for this
» moDth's journey
into the realms of the local classical music scene.
Why almost you ask yourself? Well, it seems that
for reasons of a mysterious and editorial nature (it
has to do with the alignment of tlie moon and
Reveen 's beard, it only happens once every thirty
years- ID) the copy deadline for this issue of
Discorder has been moved up a week. Now,
ordinarily, this would not constitute much of a
problem; but in the true procrastinating fashion of
a modem grad student it just to happens that both
concerts I was hoping to cover for this month are
scheduled in the few days immediately preceding
the usual copy deadline. Faced with the terror-
inspiring image of trying to fill 2000 words i n wlial
I hope is at least a coherent way witliout a live
review, I decided to take the chance on attending
what is for me a new venue: the Werlnesday Noon
Hour conceits, put on at the UBC Recital Hall with
the cooperation of the UBC School of Music. As
it turns out thLs was a wonderful choice ami
uncovered a real ly great way for some of you
vho aren't sure about your opinion of
classical music to gel a taste of some good
music at a real bargain-basenent pnce.
(If you already know you like classical
music, then it's an even better bel!)
Besides, wliatelseistlieretodo with
lis n-hourbreak you
have on Wednesdays between
your morning "Literature Inspired By or About Toads"
class and your after-
and on with Ihe review. The Noon-Hour concerts
is staged on Wednesdays at tlie School of Music (that's
over by Gate 4 and has the statue of what I think is
supposed to be a giant deformed tuning fork out in
front). They wouldbe moreaccurately called the "Just-
past Noon Concerts," as tlie fonnal starting time is
12:30 with Ihe majority of Ihe audience arriving just
slightly late (in other words, being five minutes early
wouldseemtoguaranteepremiuiuseating). Ticketsare
available al tlie office just to the left of tlie doors to the
hall, at the measly price of $2.00 each (about 1 /30 of
what you had lo pay for the text for your Toad Literature
course). For February 2nd. Ihe concert was a performance of Antonin Dvorak's Trio in F Major. Op.90
wliich iscolloquially known as the "Dumky" trio. Tlie
performers were Robert Davidovici on violin (you
might recognize the name from previous columns, if
you liad actually read the thing instead of using it lo
paper-train your new cat, because Mr. Davidovici is Ihe
First Violin for tlie Vancouver Symphony); Eric
Wilson on violincello (another first-rate musician,
previous member of Ihe Emerson Slniig Quartet and
currendy a faculty member hereat tlie University of Big
Corporations); and Rena Sharon on piano (also on
faculty here, and considered one of (lie outstanding
cliamber musicians in tlie country). The nicely done
program wliich was handed to me as I went into the hall
n   o   tonlyoutlinedthemusicaladiieveiitnlsofeach
of the performers bul also informed me that
"Mr. Davidovici concertizex regularly".
(This was of great interest to me, as I was
until that moment under the mistaken
impression that people writing about musical events were constrained by tlie accepted rules of vocabulary... this enlightenment makes wriung this column much
goodeasier.) Unfortunately the program
didn't liave even a small biographical
sketch of Dvorak, a late 19th-oentury
composer best known for Ills popular
9uiSytnphony"FromtlieNewWori(r'
which is filled with nusical tliemes
taken from the simple but catchy folk-
tunes of his native Czechoslovakia.
The Dumky Tno was written in late 1890,
and was one of Dvorak's own favourite works; in
fact when he accepted a two-year past in the
United States and wanted to go on a "fare wel I tour"
of Bohemia and Moravia, lie chose tlie Dumky as
tlie centrepiece of some 40 concerts which he
performed with Ilanus Wilian and Ferdinand
Ladiner. In a departure from tlie more classical
form, tlie tno is written in six movements, n»st of
which contain segments of al leasl tliree different
tempos.   A slow, majestic opening leads into a
second movement in wliichanexuberant folkdance
theme alternates wilh slow, lyncal sectioas allowing for a greal blending of Ihe trio's sound. A lively
third movement then follows, with a slower inarch
like fourth movement contrasting tlie melody on
piano agai ivsi iJk ri lyd in uc background of uie stnngs.
A more reserved Allegro ensues, ami a wild, fre-
brings  thi
work to
ous end which for
this performance
was almost matched by the applause from a near-
capacity audience.
The musicians' timing and balance were
impeccable, which was all Ihe more impressive considering the fact thai they do not regularly perform
together. I would have appreciated having one of the
performers give a short introduction to the work, but
then 1 hold the apparenUy uncommon view that
knowing the background behind the composition of
a work helps one to enjoy it Altogether, a really good
performance and if it isany representalionoftheusual
We<lnesday fare. I highly recomntnd them to you
music lovers exit there.
Time now to take a look at what's up and
coming for March. Tlie Friends of Cliamber Music is
presenting the Beaux Arts Trio on March 1, in a
program which liasn't been announced yet bul given
die history of tins well-known ensemble it's likely to
be good. On the 22nd of tlie month they will be
presenting tlie Chamber Players of Lincoln
Centre in the form of a string quartet along with a
liarp, clannet, and flute in a varied program featuring
works by Ravel. Debussy. Saint-Saens, and W. A.
Mozart Oils popular Clannet Quintet). With so wide
a range, this concert Is sure to have something for
everyone. Both concerts are al 8:00 at the Vancouver
Playhouse.
A somewliat less publicized local musical
organization. Masterpiece Chamber Music, lias
a concert aptly entitled "A Baroque Feast" scheduled
for March 6. Tlie program includes the Concerto for
Flute, Violin. Oboe, and Continuo (dial's sort of like
a I laipsid ion 1. in case you were woixleri ng) by A iilomo
Vivaldi (tlie same fellow who wrote The Four Seasons; and you like that, right?). Also on the program
are The Annunciation Sonata by Heinrich Johann
Franz von Biber and The Wedding Cantata by J .S.
Bach. There are two performances, at 2:30 ami 8:00;
bodi are al die Vancouver East Cultural Centre (1895
Venables St.) and tickets will cost you $15.00 for
general admission or 512.00 student/senior. If you
liave any questions, you can get in touch with the
VECC at 254-9578.
Tlie VSO is presenting Robert Silverman
on piano al 8:00on Salunlay tlie 26tli and Monday the
28th in a performance of Chopin's Piano Concerto
No.2, along wiUiPaerl'sCantusMemoriam Benjamin
Britten and Sibelius's Symphony No. 1 as part of the
Masterworks series. On Ihe 19th and 21st Clyde
Mitchell will conduct an all- Gershwin concert
including excerpts from Porgy and Bess, tlie Piano
Concetto in F Major. An American in Paris, and his
perhaps best-known work Rliapsody in Blue with
Paul Stewartaspianosoloist. Again, both performances al 8:00. On tlie 3rd 4th. and Sfe, Vladamir
Spivakov will bodi eomtuct and be violin soloist in
a concert featuring Schubert's Symphony No.5, W.
Mozart's Violin Concerto No.2. Schnittke's Suite in
die Ancient Style, and Haydn's Surprise Symphony
(No.94). Widi a greal program like thus and a soloist
of Mr. Spivakov's renown I would suggest trying to
get tickets as soon as possible if y<
plan
formances tlie y may be in short suppl y. I
Oh. and in case you had any doubts,
these performances are also at 8:00.
Finally, aldiough I previously haven't mentioned
any of the Kids' Koncerts series perfon
one scheduled for the 13th looks like it might be
interesting for audiences of all ages. Conducted by
Clyde Mitchell. How dieC.imquat Found Her Song
is a musical rendition of a bint and a musician
travelling dirougli tirrc and sampling a bit of the
music from every age; al a musical stop in Leipzig
the audience even gets a chance lo be take the place
ofJ.S. Bach's choir. Sounds like an interesting idea.
and might be fun to attend; dus one is al 2:00. All
of die VSO performances listed here will be al the
If you are interested inhearing something
of iiuxlem classical music. \ou might be interested
in die concert being put on by die Music in die
Morning Concert Society on the 15th, 16tli. and
17diofthemondi. Russell Braun (baritone) and
Carolyn Maule (piano) will be prenuering a
song-cycle specifically commissioned for lite society from die Canadian coinxwer John Oliver.
Tickets are $ 16 for general admission and 513 for
studentsand seniors; the concerts will be held at the
Koerner Recital Hal I of die Vancouver Academy of
Music, 1270 Chestnut Street Refreshtients are
available al 10:00 and die performance starts al
10.30, for more information you can call die society
al 736-5650.
Two concerts are being featured by the
Vancouver Recital Society for dus month: on the
6di, internationally acclaimed guitarist David
Russell will be performing a concert widi a program Ml yet announced al tlie Vancouver Play-
Ikiusc. ()n die 8di, pianist Murray Perahia will be
performing works by Beedioven, Brahms, and
Chopia al die Orpheum. Of considerable repute,
parucularforliisrecordings of works by Mozart and
Chopin, Mr. Perahia's concert is likely lo be a very
popular event even widi ticket prices starting at
517.50 (this is die General Admission price, and
wlule a Student price is not listed I assume oik.' is
available for a savings of a few dollars.) Bodi of
diese concerts start at 8:00 widi pre-concer. talks al
7:15. If you are interested in finding out more, tlie
Recital Society can be readied at 736-6034.
Having been so impressed wilh the
Wednesday Noon-Hour Concert, il would be nice
to be able to tell you what is scheduled for performance tins month. I iifortunalely it appears thai die
schedule for these us only published a few weeks in
advance, so die best I can <ki is suggest dial you try
calhngdie Music Depart ment at 822-5574 between
8:30aiHl4:30onweekdays(I haven't liadany luck
getting an answer, but maybe you' II <ki belter), look
out for die posters around campus announcing the
next concert or just try wanik-nng overdiere sunt
Wednesday dial is. unless you would radier do
some background reading on those fascinating
Lnilhall life c>des.'
Thai's il for this mondi, good listening
unlil next lime!
■-Kill**- li-r.iffi.   Thin
aJMfci
March -"^ LOOKING
for some fun?
Big Screen Sports, Great Music, Good Eats
LIVE BANDS EVERY
THURSDAY NIGHT!
ADMISSION IS FREEH
MARCH 3
MARCHIO
MARCH 1 V
MARCH HA,
MARCH 3 1
BANDS START §9:30
Welcome back to anodier month
of my bullshit!!! First off. let me
express how truly excited I am
about the extremely audible and
visual resurgence the 7" single
has made in Vancouver, let alone
the rest of the world. Locally and
internationally, this format was
declared as dead as Victor
French by die powers at the
controls. Amazingly, die format
not only refused to die (like its
suffering older brother, the LP)
but flourished into one of die
coolest collectable ways to
release music. Although
Vancouver was a bit slow to
catch onto this march of
defiance, local bands and labels
have been quick to catch up and
make their international scratch
in die world of 7" vinyl
One such local label is
Scratch Records. For die past
few years Scratch has been
consistently releasing 7" singles
and CDs and has become one of
Canada's most original labels
just for the sheer diversity of
their roster. Their output has
increased so much it seems they
have at least one new release a
month, April '94 is no exception.
Scratch's latest 7" is from
Victoria's Mexican Power
Authority, who have managed
to cram an astounding 14 (!)
songs onto the seven inches of
black wax. Albeit, the songs only
range from about 10 to 30
seconds in length, it's still a
pretty awesome achievement. In
the 14 songs MPA manage to
cover almost all genres of music.
Most have a basic punk rock root
but often stray into power pop,
metal, arena rock, classical, and
out-and-out hardcore, all the
while surrounded by bizarre
noises and instruments. This
record is a must-have not just for
the instant collectibility but also
for the originality that is
Mexican Power Authority.
(Scratch Records, 317 A Cambie
St., Vancouver, BC, V6B 2N4).
Another local independent
label is Wrong Records, the
personal home of NoMeansNo as
well as several other related
projects and artists. Just released
is a very cool record from Rob
Wright of NoMeansNo in his
alter-ego state of Mr. Wrong, a
one man show of bass and vocals
spawned during the recent hiatus
of NoMeansNo. The A side's
"State of Grace" is a hypnotic,
grindingly good song winch
sounds amazingly rock-
accessible for this salty, original
punk. And if that wasn't enough
of a surprise, die B side is a
really great Elvis Presley-style
love song called "The End the
World!" Careful, this one might
just make the meanest of you
punks shed a tear. Overall. Rob's
voice sounds great, as does his
legendary trademark bass
r^
THE PIT PUB • IN THE BASEMENT OF THE STUDENT UNION BUIIDING, 6138 SUB BLVD. • 604-822-6511
16    yOi/icOfHlef*
INTERNATIONAL SECULAR ATAVISM
INSPIRA TIONAL CD compact disc out
N0W»VQ§f AVAILABLE AT ALL
COOL RECOHD STORES [you know
which ones) THIS IS not not NOT A
MUSIC CD IT IS AN INSPIRATIONAL
CD (includes phone call to "BOB
LARSON") Learn how to maintain a
HEALTHY "HEALTHY" HEALTHY
T H R O N T U M ! ! !
BE ONE OF US! BE ONE OF US! BE
ONE OF US! BE ONE OF US! WOW!
PHONE US!!! in Canada (604) 268-9952 FREE message! U.S.A. (503) 7684001
"-SHRTS OF THIS 'FREE SNOT DE-
;SIGN avaiable at TRACK RECORDS,
BOOM CDs, ZULU RECORDS, and
"POP!"!!! or send $14* (cash please...
we'rea religion) 100%cotton, black orwhite
(specify) X-large only... and SEND $5 for
real real REAL (it REALLY IS REAL')
"mUE^CTUAL^TBOOGERSOFOUR
"LORD" the MfSS/MHOLY JESUSTHE
WOW'cHRIST--miNG"(ForFREESTICK-
EBS OF THE 'FREE SNOT AD send
SAS.E.JW0W! ITS REALLY TRUE!!!!
X^R ri0*WMM'to fa to*xlr6, UtoioW, vancouVFQfi.C. va • 1Pf.. ™££ VSM! playing. Snatch this one up
quick. (Wrong Records, P.O.
Box 3243, Vancouver, BC, V6B
3Y4).
1
MR. WRONG]
FIGHTS
THE
SYSTEM
Yet another band makes it
out of Vancouver to sign with a
foreign label! This time it's
Strain, who have made it all the
way to Heart First in Germany
for their vinyl debut. This is
very, very heavy hardcore,
verging on metal-dirge. Utterly
humourless, it's this kind of
death-grind that does nothing
much more than depress the crap
outta me. But, hey, it's out, it's
local, and I'm sure fans of their
live show will like it cuz this
record is produced loud! (Strain,
P.O. Box 1457 Station A,
Vancouver, BC, V6C 2P7).
I recently had the pleasure
of tagging along on cub's west
coast tour of the US and
managed to pick up some cool
finds...imagine a mix of the
Ramones and the Misfits, then
add a heavy dose of Monkees
and you'll get Si
Groovie Ghoulies This guy
and two gals put on an awesome
stage show, as I was privy to
when I saw them open up for
Flop in Sacramento. Both songs
on this record, "Hello Hello" and
"I Wanna Have Fun," are great
representations of the band and
are strongly recommended
listening for anyone who's into
rockin', unpretentious good-
times. (Unfortunately, no
address).
In Berkeley I just missed
the Delightful Little Nothings
but heard good reports so I
bought their EP. The rumours
were true, the DLN's are a good
indie-beat-pop band more than a
lot like Tiger Trap/Heavenly.
With a sweet-as-shit girl singer,
this melodic, catchy stuff is
reminiscent of morning sunshine
on a hung-over Sunday (Candy
Floss Records, 130 Sutter, 5th
floor, San Francisco, CA, 94104,
USA).
Then there are those who
only sing about golf, namely
Eddy and the Back Nine, a
group dedicated to (I know, I
know!)...golf. In real life Eddy is
Seattle artist Mr. Edward
Fotheringham and the Back Nine
are actually Seattle pop-combo
Flop. But on this 7" they are
golfing '77 punk-style, slicin'
out tunes like "Under Ten
Handicap" and "Titleist Too."
It's fun to hear Flop a lot looser
and less serious than on their
LPs, especially when it's with a
guy who is screaming and
iring about golf (just like
most golfers - ed.). The sleeve is
also hilarious, featuring the
group, on location, playing golf!
In fact, the whole concept makes
this band second only to the
Hanson Brothers in that rare
genre of sports/punk crossover.
(Super Electro, P.O. Box 16606,
Seattle, WA, 98116. USA).
Now let's get negative.
Grenadine are a supposed
"super-group" featuring members
of Unrest and Tsunami (or is it
Salami? I forget...). It's a two-
song plodder, co-released by
Simple Machines and Teen Beat,
that is, simply, totally fucking
boring: acousticy, soft perfect-
pop that, at this time of night,
makes the gin wanna come out
the wrong end! (What end is that,
Grant?-ed.) Never forget, folks, I
wanna rock, always, and people
like Jonathan Richman prove that
you can indeed harmlessly rock
out on an acoustic at low volume.
Grenadine, therefore, are shit!
(Simple Machines/Teenbeat, P.O.
Box 10290, Arlington. VA,
22210, USA).
The next review is courtesy
of CiTR's Greg Garlick (who
loves to see his name in print and
enjoys the act of pissing in the
BC Hydro Building fountain). He
loaned me this available-through-
mailorder-only Superchunk
Precision Auto, Parts 2 and i.
Whoa, weird record. Side one
starts off with spacey UFO bleeps
then bursts into a two minute
punk pounder (Part I) to abruptly
segue into the extraterrestrial
bleeps again. Side two is a
a of side one, where
the same song (Part 2) emerges
once again from the murky noise.
A strange and extremely
collectable record, too bad I have
to give it back to Greg. Oh well,
maybe he'll forget about it.
(Merge).
Well, two-thirds of the way
into the column and I have yet to
review any records from Canada
outside of Vancouver. They do
exist and although this next one
may be a little late it's certainly
worth reviewing. Montreal's En
Guard Records released a 4 song
7" Christmas compilation
entitled Merry Goddamned
Christmas featuring The
Ripcordz (Montreal), Down
(Charlottetown), Stand GT
(Glengarry, Ont.) and the Naked
and the Dead (Edmonton). The
Ripcordz' melodic pop-punker is
one of the best tunes I've ever
heard out of them; Down's
amazing mod power-pop sound
caught me completely by
surprise; and Stand GT's vocals
audible for once, and that's
great cuz this band rules and they
all too often bury some fine
singing. Bum look out! Finally,
proving once again that pop is
growing in leaps and bounds
Canada-wide, the Naked and the
Dead bring in the last of four
cool, catchy Canadian rock'n'roll
songs. (En Guard, 1671 St.
Hubert. Montreal. PQ. H2L
3Z1).
Due to die population
difference and their obsession
with pumping out volume, one
can always find some American
rock 'n' roll when something like
Stand GT or Down ain't around.
Take, for instance, New York's
A-Bones who throughout the
last year have been constantly
spewing out hit single after hit
single. One of their latest, "Get
Home Girl" b/w "Guess I'm
Falling in Love" (a Velvet
Underground song), is right up
their with the best of em. It's
just another awesome A-Bones
single, that's all. Good luck
finding it! (Bedrock Records,
Flat One, 347 Queenstown Rd..
Battersea, London, SW8 4LH.
UK).
Little brothers to the
hierarchy of the A-bones is
Hoboken's Swingin'
Neckbreakera. I slagged their
first single in this column bul
they have since grown up a lot as
a band and dramatically
improved in the process. This is
best documented on their
fantasuc LP Live for Buzz
released last year. This single is
e of the same three chord
garage rock V roll with an
original "Workin" and Jerkin"'
on the A side and a great cover
of "Good Good Lovin'" on the
flip. (Estrus, P.O. Box 2125,
Bellingham, WA, 98227, USA).
Another band from the New
York area is the long-running
Raunch Hands, who for years
have put out records on the
amazing Crypt label of Germany.
This double 7", Million Dollar
Movie, is one of my first tastes of
the Raunch Hands and I'm about
ready to barf. Expecting stuff the
likes of other Crypt bands like
the Devil Dogs and the Blues
Explosion. I was rudely
awakened to half-baked roots
rock that neither impressed nor
pleased my delicate ears. The
vocals are mostly spoken, sexist
bullshit over top of a wimpy,
tired-sounding bar band. It's too
bad cuz Crypt rarely does 7"'s
and usually has impeccable taste.
(Crypt, Hopfenstr 32, 2000
Hamburg 36, Germany).
Philadelphia's all-girl band
the Friggs are back at it with a
brilliant four song 10" parody of
Cream magazine entitled
America s Only Rock 'n' Roll
Magazine Paroch 10" EP.
Though they could have reduced
that mouthful, this is a pretty hot
piece of rock 'n' roll action. It
rocks both on the sleeve and in
the grooves, fitting perfectly in
step with the label, the ever-
impressive Sympathy for the
Record Industry. Get this and
these at your local record emporium, today. Aye aye. and
goodbye.
Z ^SMUGGLERS 1 his is how you remove the problctti
Close bag with a knot and put in the garbage
VANCOUVER HdJilMl
INDEPENDENT REVIEWS
Rock ForChoice compilation
My Body Equals My Choice
What a great idea, a Rock For
Choice benefit tape to correspond with the R.F.C. benefit
show. The three bands that
played the show, Kreviss.
Tickletrunk and
Sparkmarker. all appear as
well as Ten Days Late. Fracas, Vinaigrettes, Insult to
Injury, cub and Pluto. Comes
with some info on the B.C.
Coalition for Abortion Clinics
and the Everywoman's Health
Centre. A great mix of Vancouver and Victoria talent with
the proceeds going to a good
cause. Go on, buy it now!
WfBOyM
memk
Insult to Injury
As We Live Our Lies demo
Fourteen songs of great punk/
hardcore with a cool lyric booklet and...well, it's just cool,
dammit. Real sincere with the
do-it-yourself approach and a
lot of personality. The singer
sort of reminds me of Kathleen
Hanna from Bikini Kill but the
music is much more hardcore
and the comparison ends there;
sometimes, however, the vocals are real soft and pretty and
then turn into a screeching
scream. A lot of fun and humour thrown in with a great
18    G&isconlej*
array of politically aware lyrics.
Support the independent scene.
(P.O. Box 21533 1850 Commercial Dr. Vancouver, B.C. V5N
4A0 Canada)
Catfish
Neighbours And Dogs
Listening to Neighbours and
Dogs brings to mind a more rock
and roll Soundgarden. ..maybe it's
the Led Zeppelin that trickles in.
Knowing that this is what a lot of
bands are sounding like nowadays, it's hard to hear anything
that separates them apart. If you
go to the Lunatic Fringe you
might like this, (c/o Gordon Park
P.O. Box 37004 Vancouver. B.C.
V5P 4W7 Canada)
Smak
Rock, jazz, blues, funk fusion
with quirky sounds and silly lyrics. 1 think this is what Primus
sounds like. The only grounds I
have for comparison is that I just
can't get into it, 1 don't know
why. I was more interested in the
cover art and wondering why a
Coast J0401ogowasonit?(#l=
#703 - 1250 Bute St. Vancouver,
B.C. V6E 1Z9 Canada)
FANZINES
There has been a downpour of
fanzines in the last little while
and us there is little space to work
within, I'll review a couple (hat
caught my attention and list the
others in a less detailed formal:
Aim Your Dick #2
(8 1/2 x 11; 40 pgs)
P.O.  Box 4655.  Berkeley, CA
94704-0655, U.S.A.
Alternazone #3
(5 1/2 x 8 1/2; 24 pgs)
222 Mc Caul St., Toronto, Ont.
M5T 1W5. Canada
Bunyon #4
(8 1/2x11; 32 pgs; $2)
Special "high-school nostalgia"
issue! Handwritten scribblingsof
life and how not to live it. A
bunch of comics too! There might
be a bit of inside humour but
enough common humour to make
you smile or say "what the
fuck?" (c/o Robert Dayton,
317A Cambie St., Vancouver,
B.C. V6B 2N4, Canada)
CUM. #6
(5 1/2 x 8 1/2; 20 pgs; $1)
It's been a while but another
issue of that piss-everybody-
off 'zine is out. Interesting letter from Havoc and interviews
with Nardwuar the Human Serviette and the Melvins. Home
Cooking with Mike is highly
recommended. For some reason I feel that this may be the
last issue...maybe not. (2961
PastureCircle, Coquidam, B.C.
V3C 2C3, Canada)
Exploitation Retrospect #38
(5 1/2 x 8 1/2; $2 ppd.)
Any 'zine with 38 issues deserves some praise! (P.O. Box
1155, Haddon Field, NJ 08033
- 0708, U.S.A.)
FUJ5H3
Flush #2 & #3
(5 1/2 x 8 1/2; 24 pgs; $1)
Getting better with each issue.
Flush sure are pumping them
out. They complain about not
getting any letters, so write
them. If you live in N. Van then
get involved, they seek contributions. My pick of the month.
(P.O. Box 37536, 1520
Lonsdale Ave.. North Vancouver, B.C. V7M 3L7, Canada)
s Glue #3
(8 1/2 x 11; 28 pgs; $4 ppd.)
Suede, Suede. Suede. If you
like the band you'll love the
'zine. I have a real soft spot for
this 'zinc. Really dedicated and
sincere, and quite different
from anything else. I'd love to
gel my photo in Glamorous
Glue — I want to be adored!
(P.O. Box 41023, 2529
Shaughnessy St., PortCoquitlam,
B.C. V3C3G1, Canada)
Hectic Times #6
(8 1/2x11; 48 pgs; $2)
P.O. Box 2652, Santa Cruz, CA
95063, U.S.A.
Huge Dead Animal #1
(8 1/2x11; 22 pgs)
A potluck of different ideas as
put out by one who goes under
the alias of "Puppy." Sort of a
feminist view on animal rights,
veganism, sexual harassment, the
"scene," straight edge and herbal
medicine. It might sound like it's
all preachy but it's okay, it has a
lot of personality and sincerity.
Very informative. (#618-620
View St., Victoria, B.C. V8W
1S6, Canada)
In Hell's Belly #1
(8 1/2 x 11; 36 pgs; Free, if you
can find it.)
A great first issue. Interesting
layouts that catch your eye and
guide you through articles on tattooing, body piercing, branding,
technocracy, hemp, sexuality and
much more. Interesting articles
on many untouched topics with a
good in-depth view. I can see this
'zine only getting better. Lots of
local spodight on various activities and businesses. A good read.
(5809 Main St., Vancouver, B.C.
V5W2T1, Canada)
Panzy #1(?)
(5 1/2x8 1/2; 12 pgs; Free, if
you can find it.)
Poetry and writings and a*cou-
pleof revtews. (P.O. Box 33014,
West Vancouver,  B.C.  V7W
4W7, Canada)
Pop Gazer #2
(5 1/2 x 8 1/2; 52 pgs; $2)
I really enjoyed this 'zine. It
touches not only on music but
clothes, television and other
North American youth culture-
type stuff. Maybe that's a bit
sad but I can relate and found it
entertaining and fun. An interview with local Daisy Glaze
(who I've never heard of until
now) and a lot of satire towards
the popular music culture known
as grunge. Fun to read. (P.O.
Box 78550, University Postal
Outlet, Vancouver, B.C. V6T
2E7, Canada)
ffni fB i IBi.BBI IR
Raw Energy Report #1
(5 1/2 x 8 1/2; 12 pgs; Free)
372 Richmond St. West, Suite
#212, Toronto, Ont. M5V 1X6,
Canada
Virtual Unreality #1
(5 1/2 x 8 1/2; 28 pgs; $1.50
PPd.)
#5-1255 East 15th Ave.; Vancouver, B.C. V5T 2S7, Canada
Volare #1
(5 1/2x8 1/2; 32 pgs)
Reviews and opinions from a
very opinionated person. (Box
24, 2147 Commercial Dr., Vancouver, B.C. V5N4B3, Canada)
ALL AGES SHOWS
March 25-26-27
Battle of the bands. Showcase
of premiering talent, low door
price, fun time. At the South
Wall (Lonsdale Rec. Centre),
North Van..
Sat. March 26
Gest Quest Co-op presents Rev-
elation Recording Artists
Sencefield (ex-Reason to Believe) at the Hastings Community Centre. $6.
BEY KIDS! \—}
g°t those ::-:::: o
DAV BLUES? ® □
check stir
cdsBp I   I
2003 W.4th Aye.
Yan.BJC. 739-9511
COMPACT DISCS IMPORTS
TAPES MAGAZINES BOOKS
T-SHIRTS VIDEOS ACCESSORIES INDEPENDENTS' MADNESS
The Business
(Virgin)
These seven lads from London
always made me smile. Perhaps it
was because even in their most
serious songs they never really
took themselves too seriously.
Even so, the Doc Marten-ed
yobbo's managed to whip up
some great ska stompers like
"Night Boat to Cairo" and "House
of Fun" that still stand the test of
time. The Business is a three CD
box-set that stands as Madness'
best of their "Best of records. It
includes a nifty, 52 page booklet
thai spans the nutty boys' career
from 1979 to 1986, and their
subsequent reunions which act as
a sign that the nutty train will
continue to roll on. Amongst all
the standard hits there are some
gems here, like the Italian version
of "One Step Beyond," their take
on "Swan Lake," and the ska-
kazoo version of "God Save the
Queen."
Sprinkled in between the
songs are some interview bits with
Madness roadies, fans, relatives,
and management people that
provide some stories and a bit of
background info into tlie evolution
of the band. Unfortunately, some
of these interviews aren't very
well recorded but this is the only
bad part of The Business.
Clocking in at only ten minutes
shy of FOUR hours this is perhaps
the only Madness compilation
you'll ever need, should you want
one to begin with.
A. 0. Chapman
BABE THE BLUE OX
Je m'Appelle Babe
(Homestead Records)
According to legend, Paul
Bunyan, the gargantuan tree-
slayer of American folklore, had a
pet ox named Babe. Babe wasn't
jusl an ordinary ox, though. Babe
was a special Ox; Babe was. blue.
And when Babe- the Blue Ox
roamed the woods with Paul
Bunyan, Babe used to sing
songs.... liven though Babe was
sans musicians with whom to jam
(assuming Paul couldn't carry a
tune on his axe), it's highly
unlikeiy that Babe sounded
anything like the band who chase
this coloured cow-thing as their
namesake. Actually, it's damned
near impossible that anybody
sounds like the band, Babe the
Blue Ox. This trio is definitely
Blending psychedelic bass
lines witli tribally-peraissive
guitar rhythms and a drum
inspired by Dante, Je m 'Appelle
Babe is an awe-inspiring display
of this band's complete disregard
for conventional nuisicality;
their's if a musical emancipation.
Seemingly unaware of today's
trend towards formulaic
songwriting, the six tracks on this
album are like a lunatic's digitally
mastered stream-of-
consciousness: instruments fade in
and out of a dream; lime
signatures change almost
randomly; soundscapes ebb and
flow; thrash guitar intertwines
wilh virtuoso bass lines screaming
of a childhood tormented by piano
lessons; an Ox. tripping on acid,
sings; Paul Bunyan screams...
Simply, as soon as you buy
it, put il in, turn it on and turn it
up, you're going to be assaulted
and invited into the minds of tliree
very talented musicians who will
send your mind every which way
but backwards. It's hard to figure
out exactly what Uiey're saying
but ihey say it very well, very
loud, and with more style than a
rock band from Brooklyn would
ever be expected to have. This
CD, a follow-up to their debut
release Box. shows Tim Thomas.
Rose Thompson and Ilanna Fox
to be incapable of playing
anything Ihal would ever lie heard
on lop 40 radio. This is good.
Very, very gixxl.
Jeff Haas
HATER
Hater
(A&M)
Best flung I've heard oulla
Seattle in two years. Not even a
whiff of grunge to be found.
Pavement meets the Yardbirds.
Sean Harvey
KOKO TAYLOR
Force of Nature
(Alligator/WEA)
Force of Nature, the latest release
from the Queen of the Blues, is
primarily a collection of tributes
to her friends and colleagues,
wilh three original tunes by the
first lady herself. The two tracks
which stand out the most on this
recording are "Born Under a Bad
Sign" and "Hound Dog," the
latter being the Elvis Presley hit
but done "Koko Taylor's Way "—
slowing it down and making it a
bit more bluesy is an
improvement over the more
familiar version. "Born Under a
Bad Sign" hears Taylor teaming
up with acclaimed bluesman
Buddy Guy for a gutsy rendition
of this blues classic in tribute to
her friend, the late Albert King.
The rest of the recordings range
from good but uninspired blues
to some outright boring songs.
However, die redeeming factor
for me is Koko Taylor's raunchy,
raucous, rafter-rattling voice.
My last gripe is one of
personal taste. I don't like to hear
the extensive use of horns in
blues music, but if you're a fan of
that style then you'll probably
love Force of Nature.
Robin Beech
ENIGMA
The Cross of Changes
(Virgin)
Owing h all to dieir original
album. MCMXCAD and a hit
called "Sadeness," replete widi
Gregorian Chants and a drum
machine, everyone is,
undoubtedly, familiar wilh
Enigma? MCMXCAD had a
similar feel and, if not brilliant or
clever, il had a haunting and
attractive feeling to it that ranked
it as one of the more enjoyable
albums of recent years in my
books. Tlie new album. The Cross
of Changes, begins with a promise
ol an even better album, as H
stayed true to the spirit of the firs!
album and expands the scope of
Ihe Enigma project—the second
track, "The Eyes of Truth," is one
of the most beautiful pieces of
music I've ever heard. Gregorian
chants had largely been replaced
by a South Asian feel and the
music was epic, to say Ihe least.
And then something terrible
happened.
The remainder of the album,
with Ihe exception of "Carly's
Song" (featured in Ihe film
Sliver), is a supercheese collection
of niid-eighlies pop-guitar licks.
"Curly" Michael Crelu. the brains
behind Enigma, must have really
flipped out on this one. The new
sounds he incorporated on die
album, notably the native
American and Indian sounds,
could have sent Enigma in a
wonderful direction but, instead,
suck them with tacky love ballads.
Guitars which could have lain the
foundations to powerful new
pieces are wasted in Bon Jovi
solos. I wince at the tragedy.
Simply, I didn't just dislike
this album, I am saddened by it.
The promise of masterpiece
dashed by a completely
unnecessary exploration into bad
pop. If you can find an EP of
"Eyes of Truth" you are spending
your money in a far wiser fashion.
If you are looking for that
haunting epic feel with a drum
machine, look for Lesion or Will
and not this sordid crap. Maybe I
just don't get it, but I wouldn't
want to know anyone who
enjoyed the bulk of this album.
Gustav
ZIPGUN
Baltimore
(eMpTy Records)
Baltimore adds a distinct ;
lo the world of punk-pop,
delivering a fresh and
Northwestern perspective to the
already solid foothold established
with Zipgun's first release, X-
Track Player. Zipgun features
members from Tlie Derelicts
(Neil Rogers on guitar) and Final
Warning (Dan Cunneen on
drums), paving the way with ihe
wali-wali punk geelar and
thuiiipin' drumbeat. From the
sound of things, Mark Wooten
and Robbe Clark (bass anil
vocals, respectively) have been
drinkin' a little too much coffee
(it's a northwest thing) 'cause
every track conies jumping out
just like the boys are playing in
the living room!
Named after their last tour,
which was cut short by a week
due to Iheft, Baltimore adds 9
new songs to their repertoire. But
the real clincher is the organ
solos on "I Can't Wait" (with
thanks to Tom Price of Gas
Huffer fame).
Skyler
THE LEVELLERS
The Levellers
(Elektra/China)
I was ready to write this album off
as a carbon-copy sophomore
effort thai broke no musical
ground, allow me lo correct
myself. This is actually a heavier,
louder album than the Levellers'
first and most certainly comes
closer to capturing the band's
exhilarating energy released in
their live performance. The title of
the first track, "Warning," is an
understatement. It serves,
somewhat, as the album's calm-
before-the-storm as it strikes hard
on the second track, "100 Years of
Solitude." The barrage of guitars
and drums clashing against each
other transforms itself into a
raucous symphony of calculated
The world of which the
Levellers sing about is the
industrial wasteland of London,
and that world hasn't sounded
darker or more pathetic—suitable
to be spoken by the twisted anti-
hero of the recent film Naked. It's
the blue-collar existence that the
Levellers have taken cause to
explore. Where home is the rat
infested alleyway, reeking of
putrid sewer water spouting out
from the broken drainage that the
rich politicians always promise to
improve. There's no love lost
between the band and Ihe polilicos
as the lead singer intones about
the bitter reality that "there's a
law for the rich, and a law for the
poor" with cynical restraint on
"Dirty Davey."
On this album, however, die
Levellers are not the rebel band
wilh a cause. Rather, they are
observers mirroring die plight off
their fellow countrymen. The
songs are laden with the passion
and intensity felt by die folk diey
sing of and not for diem.
Paolo "Westerberg"
reminds me a lot of The Saints.
Both bands could pump out a few
really great raw and wild songs
("Johanna," "Ron Kinda'
World") and a lot of less
distinguishable fuzzed out tunes
that just kind of passed you by,
like Ihe 2:45 AM bus as it pulls
out of the loop. The Roaring
Third was much of what I
expected, at first—a lot of
mundane buzzing with a few
genuine musical high points—bul
after repeated listenings grew on
me and I was able to hop on that
bus and get home.
Tom Milne
Javier
PIGEONHED
Pigeonhed
(Sub Pop)
Featuring Kim Thayil of
Soundgarden on occasional
guitars. Pigeonhed sounds like a
bad combination of Talk Talk and
recent Peter Gabriel. There are a
couple of interesting sound effects
but most of the songs are
uninspired and drawn-out. Al their
worst, Pigeonhed presents falsetto
vocals, directionless bass
synthesizers and sparse keyboard
accompaniment. At their best
("Salome"), (hey adequately
integrate abstract sounds from a
variety of psychedelic moods.
Overall, this CD doesn't have
much to offer.
Ted Koppman
PRISONSHAKE
The Roaring Third
(Shake Records)
Prisonshake tends to play
straightforward, noisy riK.k that
THE HARVESTERS
The Edge of Suitability
(Infinity <»)
Bluesy-rock background music
which renunds you thai life is a
solo mission. It's not usually my
type of stuff but The Edge of
Suitability is cool enough as a
break from the noise of the city,
and the clash of feedback and
distortion. If your musical taste is
diverse enough for mellow
grooving you nught check it out.
Caution Forest
VARIOUS ARTISTS
San Francisco House
Culture: Phase One
(Ultra-Ethereal Records)
Ultra-Ethereal Records has put
out an ullra-funky slab o' tunes.
Tins nine-track compilation of
three bands doing three pieces
each, as with any compilation,
has its weak and strong points.
Tlie opening groove is quite
catchy on Ihe first listen bul,
afterwards, becomes bit of an
overworked bore. In fact, almost
all of the opening six tracks
sound like variations on a single,
monotonous dieme. I suppose
that is inherent in Ihe style itself
that this should happen. Tlie last
three tracks show a bit more
creativity, however. They still
revolve around a thumping and
repeuUve bass line but if one is to
view that negatively, then that is
music itself than anything else.
Track seven is a super slick.
ultra-involving lune which I like
more every tune I hear it.
Overall this CD is not that
bad. It's perfect to slap on while
doing something else besides
listening. The repetitive nature of
the music makes il not all that
intrusive and it does build
momentum as it goes. Hey. it got
my dad to move his feet and he's
a Hank Snow fan  Can't be all
that bad. now can it'1
Chris Erickson
March -et|J Dick Dale & the Deltones
The Falcons
The Surfdusters
Commodore Ballroom
Thursday, February 3
Instru-mania hit the Commodore
with the return of the legendary
Dick Dale. One of my favourite
local bands, The Falcons, kicked
things off. Their blend of traditional surf and tex-mex styles is
at the same time technically precise and incredibly catchy. They
whipped off a set of mostly originals, some of which are coming
out on a CD soon, and slipped in
"Pipeline" and a Link Wray tune
as a bonus. Do not miss these
guys' next show!
The Surfdusters were next,
a five-piece which included an
organ. Their style was different
from the Falcons, with the 'Dusters possessing a busier, rawer
style. They covered a Savage
Republic tune, which was cool,
but overall they suffered from a
mix that had too much high end.
They also handed out some free
cassettes and copies of "Live
Wire," a cool 'zine about instro-
rock put out by members of both
the Falcons and the Surfdusters.
One thing I like about this
style of rock is the prominent use
of vintage gear on stage. In fact
between the sets the front of the
stage was crammed with
techheads, myself included, craning their necks to glimpse the
legendary amps and guitars. I almost slipped on my own drool.
What can I say about Dick
Dale? This guy -a veteran of the
Frankie and Annette movies,
whose career is resurging incredibly after the blistering Tribal
Thunder CD last year — came on
and literally blew our minds! Half
the crowd was (rugging uncontrollably, and the other half just
stood there, awestruck. I assume
many of the people there were
also in attendance last time, and
Dale said that people were following him from show to show,
christening them "Dicklieads." He
performed the fastest string
change I'd ever seen and il was
during a song to boot! He also did
acool drum solo around the drummer during 'Bo Diddley' which
had to be seen lo be believed. If
you missed the show, you missed
out bigtime. Next time, become a
Dickhead.
Mofo
Reveen the Impossibilist
Queen Elizabeth Theatre
Wednesday, February 16
I wanted to dis Reveen heavily. I
wanted to go, find out that the man
is a scam, a fraud, a circus sideshow freak, someone you would
pay a dollar to see in a smelly old
tent next to the fetal cow with two
heads. "Step right up ladies and
gentlemen, see the fetal cow with
two heads and for an extra ticket,
catch circus sideshow freak,
Reveen, the Australian hyp-NO-
tist. Watch Reveen makehisfamily
cluck like ducks while his hair
never moves... step right up..."
Well, I was disappointed, but
not in Reveen: the man is amazing! I will never laugh at his hokey
commercials again. I had so many
great one liners ready to fire off,
and now I can't use them, or at
least not until Jello Biafra comes
back again.
Reveen is pure entertainment. I haven't laughed so hard
since dial Simpsons episode where
Sideshow Bob had the unfortunate, much repealed accident with
the rakes. Reveen knows how to
worka crowd, even if his clothing,
hair, and social altitudes are frozen in time somewhere around die
year of Elvis' alleged death. Beginning wilh a light show thai
would make Thomas Edison proud
of his invention (not to mention
whoever invented the disco ball),
Reveen did things dial were fun
and imaginative, yet weren't stupid or embarrassing, unless, of
course, you were Ihe woman prancing around on stage thinking you
were a spy, or were Discorder's
own Rosanne, delivering baby after baby after baby because all the
oilier doctors were away for the
day (I believe the line was "diere
are no other doctors and the babies
just keeping coming!"). This whole
magazine could be filled with incidents of what Reveen was able
to entice volunteers to do (for example, I never knew Vancouver
had such a large number of Olympic quality ice dancers), bul
instead, you just  really need to
20    ^mco/h/cj^ CHARTS
MARCH 94
LONG VII
m 50
1 CUB
BETThCOLA
MINT
2 ARCHERS OF LOAF
CKY METTLE
ALIAS
3 POP SICKLE
UNDER THE INFLUENCE
C/Z
4 ERIC'S TRIP
LOVE TARA
SUB POP
5 PJ HARVEY
FOUR TRACK DEMOS
ISLAND
6 MECCA NORMAL
FLOOD PLAIN
K RECORDS
7 BIKINI KILL
PUSSY WHIPPED
KILL ROCK STARS
8 FACEPULLER
AUDITORY SURGICAL TECHNICIANS        BANG ON
9 RAMONES
ACID EATERS
RADIOACTIVE
10 VARIOUS ARTISTS
VOLUME EIGHT
VOLUME
11 LOIS
STRUMPET
K RECORDS
12 ROCKET FROM THE CRYPT
ALL SYSTEMS GO
HEADHUNTER
13 SUBSONICS
GOOD VIOLENCE
WORRYBIRD
14 SMUT
BLOOD, SMUT AND TEARS
SPANISH FLY
15 TIGER TRAP
SOUR GRASS
CARGO
16 THE MANY
LEECH
EX 69
17 MATERIAL
HALLUCINATION ENGINE
AXIOM
18 NEW BOMB TURKS
DRUNK ON COCK
CARGO
19 REDD KROSS
PHASESHIFTER
THIS WAY UP
20 UNCLE TUPELO
ANODYNE
SIRE
21 YOUNG FRESH FELLOWS
YOUNG FRESH FELLOWS
POPLLAMA
22 THE LEVELLERS
THE LEVELLERS
CHINA
23 SCRAWL
VELVET HAMMER
SIMPLE MACHINES
24 CRUNT
CRUNT
TRANCE
25 MEDICINE
THE BURIED LIFE
AMERICAN
26 AFRICAN HEAD CHARGE
IN PURSUIT OF SHASHMANE LAND      ON-U SOUND
27 LES THUGS
AS HAPPY AS POSSIBLE
SUB POP
28 JAWBOX
FOR YOUR OWN SPECIAL SWEETHEART    ATLANTIC
29 SNOOP DOGGY DOG
DOGGYSTLYE
DEATH ROW
30 TEENAGE FANCLUB
THIRTEEN
GEFFEN
31 VARIOUS ARTISTS
TEENBEAT FIFTI
MATADOR
1   32
HUGGY BEAR
TAKING THE ROUGH WITH THE
.     KILL ROCK STARS
33
SNFU
SOMETHING  GREEN  AND
LEAFY...     EPITAPH
34
VARIOUS ARTISTS
ROCK FOR CHOICE
INDEPENDENT
35
HALF JAPANESE
FIRE IN THE SKY
SAFE HOUSE
36
SLOWDIVE
SOUVLAKI
SBK
37
K.D. LANG
EVEN COWGIRLS GET THE BLUES               WARNER
38
ZIPGUN
BALTIMORE
EMPTY
39
SHAQUILLE O'NEAL
SHAQ DIESEL
JIVE
40
SHONEN KNIFE
ROCK ANIMALS
VIRGIN
41
VARIOUS ARTISTS
SYNESTHESIA
DESOLATION
42
LEE HARVEY OSWALD 8AND
A TASTE OF PRISON
TOUCH AND GO
43
RASCALZ
REALLY LIVIN
CALABASH
44
HASSAN HAKMOUN
TRANCE
REALWORLD
45
YO LA TENGO
PAINFUL
MATADOR
46
SEPULTURA
CHAOS AD.
EPIC
47
SINISTER SIX
OUTTA SIGHT
EMPTY
48
REVOLTING COCKS
LINGER FCKEN GOOD
SIRE
49
ST JOHNNY
SPEED IS DREAMING
GEFFEN
50
GREEN DAY
DOOKIE
REPRISE
MARCH 94 INDIE HOME JOBS
know this: Reveen is one of the
very last of a dying breed of entertainers. He seems to really enjoy
what he is doing and does not have
malicious intent nor does he deliberately try to embarrass people.
On the contrary, he goes out of his
way to ensure that nothing too
horrible happens to any of his volunteers while giving the audience
more enteitai nment than they could
get from nearly anything else. It
has been three days since I saw
him and I think I've acted out
nearly the whole show for anyone
who has dared to come within ten
feet of me. After the performance,
Reveen graciously meets with all
who want an autograph. Il is no
small feat, after a three hour plus
performance, to sign your name
for hoards of literally mesmerized
fans for over an hour I went as
skeptical as anyone could and
walked away with two programs
and a Reveen CD, all of wluch I
made sure to get autographed after
the show. The sail thing about it all
is thai Reveen now spends most of
MARCH 94
SHORT VII
m 35
1 SWERVEDRIVER
LAST TRAIN TO SATANSVILLE EP
A&M
2 JALE
EMMA 7"
DERIVATIVE
3 MARY LOU LORD
SOME JMGLE JANGLE MORNING
7" KIL ROCK STARS
4 HEAVENLY
P.U.N.K. GIRL EP
K
5 THE EVAPORATORS
I'M GOING TO FRANCE 7"
NARDWUAR
6 BUM/THE SMUGGLERS
TATTOO DAVE
TOP DRAWER
7 THE BOO RADLEYS
BARNEY (. . . AND ME) EP
CREATION
8 THE A-BONES
HULLY GULLY 7"
LANCE ROCK
9 TINY LIGHTS
I THINK I JUST WANT TO GO AW
\Y7'      KOKOPOP
10 BAILTER SPACE
B.E.I.P. EP
MATADOR
11 MOTORHONEY
TAKE 7"
LANCE ROCK
12 JAWBOX
SAVORY + 3 EP
ATLANTIC
13 VARIOUS
TERIYAKI ASTHMA IX T
C/Z
14 STRAIN
DRIVEN 7"
HEART FIRST
15 CURVE
MISSING LINK EP
CHARISMA
16 DIESEL QUEENS/INSAINTS
DIESEL QUEENS VS INSAINTS 7"
MAX.  ROCK
17 APHEX TWIN
ONEP
SIRE
18 MOTORHONEY
TAKE T
LANCE ROCK
19 GUS
BAD DISCO 7"
HEAD RUSH
20 THE STAND GT
SUGAR BUZZ 7"
TOP DRAWER
21 BIKINI KILL
NEW RADIO 7"
KILL ROCK STARS
22 RAOOUL
FRESH AND NUBILE 7"
LOOKOUT
23 THORSEN
EGll'S SAGA 7"
MEAT
24 BUTTERGLORY
OUR HEADS 7"
MERGE
25 SUPERCHUNK
RIBBON T
MERGE
26 ARCHERS OF LOAF
THE RESULTS AFTER THE LOAF'S REVENGE 7" MERGE
27 MONOXIDES
DROP OF NOTHING 7"
SUPERBOB
28 PLUTO
PRETTY LITTLE JACKET 7"
POPGUN
29 GRENADINE
DON T FORGET THE HALO T
TEEN/SIMPLE
30 LAMBCHOP
NINE T
MERGE
31  FIFTH COLUMN
ALL WOMEN ARE BITCHES 7"
K
32 SILKWORM
INCANDUCE CALIFORNIA T
ROCKAMUNDO
33 PORK
GRAND SLAM BABY 7"
NO. 6
34 ALL ABOUT CHAD
MEET ME IN THE HALLWAY T
SPINART
35 THE MEICES
THE MEICES 7"
WORD OF MOUTH
1 GOOD HORSEY                                       HOW OSWALD BASTABLE RUINED MY LIFE
2 MARK
SPRING CHICKEN
3 HJOULIE
PAVEDRVR
4 THE REAL MCKENZIES
1 AM A SCOT
5 SPARKMARKER
SPEAKING OF HEROES
6 MEET DAISY
SHINY
7 BLAISE PASCAL
SPOTLIGHT KIDD
8 TICKLE TRUNK
REVOLUTION
8 KID CHAMPION
SEVEN FORTY SEVEN
10 ERIC ESTRADA AND THE VELOUR NATION
DORK
11 SPIRITUAL HEROINE
IN YOUR SIDE
12 THE LEATHER UPPERS
1 DON'T LIKE YOU (VERY MUCH)
|     13 CHILDREN OF ATOM
AQUAINTED WrTH THE NIGHT
14 TERROR T AND THE BEAT ASSASSINATOR
TRUE 2 THA GAME
15 THE VELVETEENS
BORN AGAIN
16 DARKEST OF THE HILLSIDE THICKETS
TARRED AND FEATHERED
17 BLACK SUNSHINE
IMAGES
18 THE GOOCH
COMPLEMENTARY NACHOS
18 CHIXDIGGIT
WW
20 THE VINAIGRETTES
FISHING FOR A TROUT
21 TK5ER BEAT
BOUQUETS AND KISSES
22 THE PRISONERS
SEXY.HEAINT
23 HUGO
TIME Of DAY
24 BRUCE L. ERASER
DEAREST
25 THE SURFDUSTERS
SAVE THE WAVES
26 THE BIT TUBE SYRUP
SCREW YOURSELF DOWN
27 GREEN ACHERS
28 INDIANA                                 •
ROAD
28 LAST CRACK
STRUCTURES
30 SEX WITH NIXON
DAYSTAR
HOME    BASS
COUNTDOWN    TO    ARMAGEDDON
1 RUFF RIDER
2 LENNY D VS DJ EDGE
3 ARENATRAX
4 UP ABOVE THE WORLD
5 TEMPODROM
6 NCO
7 MOBY
8 GTO
6 KEOKI&H.L.S.S.
10 MANDALA
SHAGGY RIDIMS EP KICKIN/UK
SILENCE OF ETERNfTY EDGE/UK
NITR0 9 DELERIUM/GERMANY
TRYING TO REACH YOU EXIST DANCE/US
THETEMPODROM      FRANKFURT BEAT/GERMANY
NCOS NOISE CONTROL C&S/US
ALL THAT I NEED MUTE/CZECH
TIP OF THE ICEBERG LP REACT/UK
WE ARE ONE ADRENALIN/US
HIGH NOOM EP      NOOM RECORDS/GERMANY
the year in Las Vegas, performing
at one of the hotels there. I was
never going lo go back lo that
hellhole of a meateating, vegetarian-dinner-less city again, but I
may just have lo pack a lunch or
two and head to Vegas to catch the
man they call Reveen. And this
time, I'm volunteering.
Lane Dunlop
Archers of Loaf
Blaise Pascal
Thursday, February 17
Starfish Room
Having seen Blaise Pascal for the
first time on the 14th at the Commodore opening for Therapy?
(well, they did steal the show from
Swervedriver) 1 was somewhat
disappointed by their performance
on this night. Unfortunately, a
lacklustre, shoe-gaz.ing stage performance combined with a horrible mix of vocals and noise, while
heller organized than the previous show, didn't leave a good
impression wilh me. Somehow I
still have the feeling thai Ihey are
belter than this show suggested,
so I'll likely see them again sometime in the future.
In complete contrast. North
Carolina's Archers of Loaf came
on stage about five minutes before midnight absolutely full of
energy. The vocals were well projected and the guitars and drums
nicely crunched throughout Ihe
set. Worthy of note was their relatively small and contained equipment: their combo amps and a
four piece drum kit proved that
you don'l need to have walls of
Marshall stacks and a drum cage
to rock with a full sound. The
songs were as fresh as their latest
CD. Irky Mettle, and the set included brief attempts to play Heart
and Slayer covers. Most importantly, they had fun. as did the
audience which filled the Starfish
to aboul 60% capacity, an unfortunately small crowd for such a
good band.
Brian Wieser
DATS RIGHT, BUBALOOEY, DISCORDER SUBSCRIPTIONS ARE STILL AS DIRT
CHEAP AS THEY'VE EVER BEEN. YA LIVE OFF IN THE BOONDOCKS SOMEWHERE WITH NO COMMUNICATION WITH THE OUTSIDE WORLD BESIDES
YOUR MAILBOX? TIRED OF BEING OUT OF TOUCH WITH WHAT'S HAPPENING
AT YER FRIENDLY UBC RADIO SOCIETY? OR HAVE YOU JUST RUN OUT OF
CHEESE AND CRACKERS? IT DOESN'T MATTER, BECAUSE FRANKLY, WE
DON'T GIVE A SHIT WHY YOU WOULD WANT TO GET THAT MAGAZINE FROM
CiTR DELIVERED TO YOUR PLACE OF RESIDENCE EVERY MONTH, WE JUST
GEICHEQUE OR MONEY ORDER PLEASE!). ITS $15
CANADIAN FOR ANYWHERE IN MULRONEYLAND, $15 U.S. FOR THE VICE-
KINGDOM OF DANNY Q., AND $24 CANADIAN FOR ALL OTHER PLACES.
•SEND IT TO US C/O DISCORDER SUBSCRIPTIONS, RM.233, 6138 SUB
BLVD., VANCOUVER, B.C., CANADA V6T 1Z1. ON THE DIAL
SUNDAYS
ARE YOU SEBOUS? HUSK fWJOAM-12:0OPM All
of time is measured by its art. Most broadcasting
shuns art tor incestuous market-music. This show
presenS Die most recent new music Ion around
hewortd. Ears open. Hosted by Pad Steenhuisen
and Ian Cruthley
THE ROCKERS SHOW 12:15-3:00PM Reggae rma
all styles and fashion. Mke Cherry and Peter
Wiiams alternate as hosts.
SOUL CHURCH 3:00-5:00 PM Alternating Sundays
with Brent Argo. Vancouver onfy program devoted entirety to African- Canadan and African-
American Gospel music. Your rotating hosts are
vlnce Yeh.
BLACK MUSK 6:0O-8K)OPV Everything from the
African-American tradition: Hues, Gospel, Jazz,
Soul, R&B, Funk, Hip Hop, and current Dance
Tracks. Mouldy vinyl to shiny CD's. Your host
LacNan Murray.
LULU'S BACK M TOWN 8:0O-9:00PM No cotton a
even a coHon poty blend. Virmie Carpett and
Somy Prince bring you one hour of pureighbanfc,
ban hugging, crooning POLYESTER!
GEETANJAU WO-lfcOOPM Geetariali is a one-
hour radio show which feakires a wide range of
music from India This indudes classical music,
be* Hhdustari and Camatic, popular music from
Indan movies from lie 1930*s lothe 1990*s, Semi-
classical music such as Ghazats and Bhajans.
and also Quawwais. Fok Songs, etc. Hosted by
J.Drar.APatefandV.Ranjan.
RADIO FREE AMERICA 10:0OPM-12:00AM Join
host Dave Emory and colleague Nip Tuck for
some exkaordnary poiicaf research guaranteed
to make you fhiik twice. Bring your tape deck and
two C-90s. Originaly broadcast on KFX (Los
Altos, Calrforria).
MONDAYS
THE MORNING SHOW 7:30-J:1SAM Wake up wrth
Ihe CiTH Morning Show. Al tie news, sports and
weather you need to start your day Pits what's
happening at UBC each day with UBC Digest, a
fealire interview and more. Topped off with tie
BBC World Service News at 8:00AM fcre from
London, England.
BREAKFAST WITH THE BROWNS 8:15-11 J0AM
Your favourite brown-sters, James and Peter,
offer a savoury blend of Ihe famiiar and exotic in
an exdlingty kisrjousblend of aural delights! Tune
ri and enjoy each weekly brown plate special.
THESTUPIDRADIOSHOW11:00AM-1:00PM With
your host, Gourd. Co-starring Rog, as that guy
who hangs around. There is no longer a noon
fealire of Crucifix in Your Ear.
MEKANIKAL OBJEKT NOIZE 1:15-3:00PM CiTR's
onfy all industrial / ambient show with different
leabres every week. Wifi your dj pals June and
Ren. Sarah is as dead as a bug can be
THE MEAT-EATING VEGAN 3:00-4:00PM I
ENDEAVOURTOFEATUREDEADAIR.VERBAL
FLATULENCE(ONLYWHENISPEAK),AWORK
OF MUSIC BY A TWENTIETH CENTURY
COMPOSER-CAN YOU SAY MINIMALIST?-
ANDWHATEVERELSEAPPEALSTOME. GAY
AND LESBIAN POSITIVE. MAIL IN YOUR
REQUESTS, BECAUSE I AM NOT AN
ANSWERING MACHINE.
STRAIGHT OUTTA JALLUNDHAR «:00-5:00PM
Let LVs Jindwa and Bindwa immerse you in
radoacrve Bhungrai "Chakkh de phutayV Listen
22    §&esco/H/e^
to all our favorite Punjabi Lnes - remixes and
originals. Brraaaah!
THE CiTR DMNER REPORT 5:0O-5:30PM All the
latest on campus: news, sports, an ivdepth interview, theatre or Urn review, edtorial commentary
and more. Weekdays witi host Ian Gunn
THUNDERSTRUCK 5:3<W:00PM CiTR's weekly
wrap-up of everytiing anyone needs to know
aboul U.B.C. Thunderbrd and intramural sports
THE PEAKJNG CANUCK 7*0-9fl0PM If you are
suffering an identity crisis you may want to tune
into this show more dan once. Your host Bob
WIskri errand esCanadain20h Century sound
every second week
THE JAZZ SHOW 9:0OPM-12:00AM Vancouver's
longest running prime Ime jazz program. Hosted
by the ever-suave Gavin Waker. Feakires al 11.
March 7: ■Journey"... The McCoy Tyner Big
Band. Pianist Tyners latest and best covers al
bases (latin, funk, vocal - wifh Hie great Diane
Reeves) but if s al pure Jazz. A contemporary big
band hat wil grab your ears
March 21: A brand new release from one of
he true Canadian Jazz legends . . . guitarist,
composer and innovator Sonny Greenwich.
"Standard Idioms" presents Somy will a hom
section and his compositions A rare outing by this
reclusive Black Canadian artist who has been
recognized by Bi Evans, Miles Davis, John Handy
and oilers as one of the greats.
March 21: Churchy, funky, noisy, soulful, sad,
angry, weid... "Oh Yeah!" Oh yeah? Charles
Mngus who on the date does not play bass but
sings and plays piano. Mngus* after-ego on Sis
loose andearthy dates thai greatmustcal surrealist
Roland Kirk (Rahsaan) and his muHMnsruments.
The greal Booker Ervin (tenor saxophone), Jimmy
Knepper (trombone), he late Doug Wakins (bass)
and Dannie Richmond (drums) complete lie band.
One ol Mngus' more unique dates... oh yeah...
ifs fumy too!
SCREAMNG INCONSISTENCIES - Part 1 12:00-
4:00am: As our tangents increase I actually think
I might be getting somewhere Entertaining, awakening and confusing I fake you on a tour of old
TUESDAYS
MADONNA DEATHWATCH 1:00-11M AM Bryce and
Brady babble on aboul bourbon and bcogers
HELEN'S HUT 11:00AM-1:O0PM Brrrl Its edd out so
herelam dstin' outhotsoup recipes and Kleenexes.
BLOOD ON THE SADDLE 1:15-3:0OPM Country
music to scrape he cowsrut off your boots to. Wih
yer host-poke Jeff Gray.
MARY TYLER MOORE SHOW 3:00-5:00PM WOMEN
INMUSICANDGRRRLS IN MUSIC;TWO HOURS
OFINFOANDRAWK. YADONT NEED A PENIS
TOBEAMUSICALGENIUS! CORAL ANDTRISH.
MEET IDA BEAN 6:00-7:O0PM Rap, hi) hop.and
Super Dope Lyrics- so ly hat you'll do 3-5 just for
getting caught istening to tha stuff. Requests are
taken.rf you can gel through on he phone! Ida
Bean's on help!
THEUNHEARDMUSIC 7:O0-9:00PM Meatheunherd
where he unheard and Ihe hordes ol hardy herd
are heard, courtesy of host and demo drector Oale
Sawyer. Herd up!
RITMO LATINO 9:00-10:OOPM Get on board
Vancouver's onfy repeal testa express wih your
loco hosts Wend, Rolando, and Mateo as they
shake itand wiggle it to helatestin salsa. Merengue,
Cumbia and oher iery fiesta favourites. Latin
musk so hotifl give youatanljiRADIOSABROSA!!
WOLF AT THE DOOR 10:00PM-12:00AM Aftemalng
Tuesdays wih Stamina Daddy. The latest in dance
music and interesting drama every second week.
Wih your hosts: Bepi Crespan and Greg. Alternating wih Wolf at he Door.
AURAL TENTACLES IIDWTE- VERY LATE Warning: This show is moody and unpredctable. II
encourages insomnia and may prove to be hazardous to your heath. Listener dscrefon is advised. Avoid contact with he eyes and if taken
aural!/...please look out! The music, news and
2:00 WWOD hosted by Pierre may not be suitable
fa he entire famiy.
WEDNESDAYS
THE YACHT CLUB 11:30AM-1:15PMA nautical tour
of he four comers of he musical world. Drop
anchor. Hosted by Matt 40 J. Gav.
NOOLEY TUNES 1:1M:00PM Sprring he best and
worst of CiTR's playlet only Ihe most original
requests wil be remotely considered. Emphasis
wl be on new material kom around he world,
regardess of musical classification.
NORMAN'S KITCHEN 3:00-5:0OPM We've seen
Bemice Gerard in leathers! RearyU Wilh your host
Ihe Reverend Norman, "he Bemice Gerard of
RawknRoT.
DtDDLY ABOUT SQUAT 5:3<W:0OPM: Roving
feakires on whatever he hel I feel ake doing.
ESOTERIK 6:00-7:00PM Vitalized,
rikogasmikfukiexore, posl-apocalvrj* musik to
play Dungeons and Dragons to. Wih Kustokians
Chrislan and Gustav.
AND SOMETIMES WHY 7:00-8:OOPM Iknowyouare
bul what am I? Megan and Mko are (red of he
Valentine's blues, but springtime is approaching
and we can hear happy Hie brds chirping, fm
rubber, you're glue...
OPENCOUNTRYJOY 12KKMK)0AM,1STWED.OF
EVERYMONTH. Don't let he ?r?%?e? fool you.
TALES FROM THE INFINITE UVMGROOM 12:00-
?:00AM, 2ND, 3RD, 4TH WED. OF EVERY
MONTH. Join Chris Pariah as he guides you
through the scapes and dream images of Ihe
InlniteLivingroom.heonfy place where the utterly
absurd meets he profouridy meaningless.
THURSDAYS
SHOUR-ONAVA 7:30-9:00AM Shour-Oflava are
names of two main modes of Iranian music. This
show is dedicated to Iranian music ranging from
traditional, Wk, ehnk, mystc, old and contempo-
rary pop. Music of various parts of Iran ie.
Azerba|ani, Kurdsh, Lori, etc. are covered. We
reefy Ike to hear kom al of our Isteners to be able
lo gear Ihe show lowards their tastes. Hosted by
Mohammad.
MID-MORNING COCKTAILS 10:00-11:30 AM Let
Ihe dulcet tones ofTania and her supenor musical
tastes ease you into yet another day of existence
CANADIAN LUNCH 11:30-1:00PM Toques, plaids,
backbaoon, beer, igloos and beavers. Eat your
lunch every Thursday wifh Skyter.
HUH OF SOUL 1:00-2:00 Some of life's taslest
sonic morsels served up by Captain Ughliner &
hismerry band of toots. Jump on board, bul don't
forget your harpoon!
SUGARLUMP 2:00-3:00PM Paul Lump's sonic
k* pops bu rst hrough Ihe airwaves in this mod em
rendlon of an al ime classic.
FLEX YOUR HEAD 3:00-5:00PM
-—HARD ERIC-—
■-ERIC  CORE—
OUT FOR KICKS 6:007:30PM No Brkenstocks,
nothing poilcaly coned We don't get paid so
you're damn right we have tun wih it Hosted by
Chris B.
EDSVILLE, POP.6 7:30400PM Roots of Rock 'n'
Rd - If you don't get into Rock V Rol Heaven
dmIUamemelHostedbyEddeJ.
LIVE FROM THUNDERBIRD RADIO HELL 9:00-
11:00PM Local muzak kom 9.
MARCH 3: Apartment 14
MARCH 24: Facapuier
RADIO TRANSUBSTANTIATE YEA!! - Alternating Thursdays 11:00-1AM Donolgogenlyinto
the good night, rave, RAVE against the dying of
thelight!! Once he neede drops, make it loud.
. lis is Kapiton Nero, shal we dance...
SUMMER OF HATE 1:(t0AM*henever we drop
Thrilling car chases, heart-stopping fight
serquences, dashing young men in tight itrjng
pants. Yes we do our own stunts. Special thanks
to Sam OBEN, Caffeine Charie, Zev Asher, he
pest conkd guy, James Last. Justin Sullvan and
Ms. Mils lor all pitching in their damdesl to make
the show a cuddy ball of fun with a sightly prickly
exterior. Chunks
FRIDAYS
VENUS FLYTRAPS LOVE DEN l:1S-10:OOAM Greg
is your guide on your journey to Venus Flytrap's
world reknown love den Geting there is half he
fun Remember lo pack a lunch, some candles and
maybe a wire brush. Al aboard! Love and hugs,
SUN MON TUE WED
LI i! IMAk IM! M ;l 111. 1<9A! f-V aTMT
ARE YOU
SERIOUS?
MUSIC
EZB
ROCKERS
SHOW
ARGO/
SOUL
CHURCH
BREAKFAST
WITH THE
BROWHS
DON AHD
GOURD'S
STUPID
RADIO SHOW
MEKANIKAL
OBJEKT
NOIZE
MEAT-VEGAN
JALLUNDAR
MADONNA
DEATH
WATCH
HELENS
HUT
BLOOD ON
THE
SADDLE
MARY
TYLER
MOORE
SHOW
THU FRI
-i,-.,HMn,i..i
SAX
DIGITAL
ALARM
CHRONOMETER
ISHOUR/NAVAj
THE YACHT
CLUB
NOOLEY
TUNES/
LOVE SUCKS
NORMANS
KITCHEN
BLACK&TAN
[*?%m:1:.IM1:!
■fl TOWN
GEETANJAL
ONE STEP
BEYOND/
RADIO FREE
AMERICA
IN THE GRIP
OF INCO-
HERENCY
THE PEAKING)
CANUCK/
HIP HOP
THE JAZZ
SHOW
SCREAMING
INCONSISTENCIES
MEET IDA
BEAN
UNHEARD
MUSIC
RITM6
LATINO
WOLF AT
THE DOOR7
STAMINA
DADDY
AURAL
TENTACLES
AND SOMETIMES WHY
APftlcAU
VARIETY
TALES FROM
|THE INFINITE
LIVINGROOM
COCKTAILS
FILLET OF
SOUL
SUGARLUMP
FLEX YOUR
HEAD
VENUS
FLYTRAP
INTERNTL.
SATURDAY
EDGE
PdT c6nE
BAD
POWER
CHORD
NARDWUAR/
NOIZ SHOW
AFRICAN
SHOW
'iBI^r-iWfffl'^iW/ffi'affll
OUT FOR
KICKS
LIVE FROM
HUNDERBRD
RADIO HELL
RADIO T.Y.
SUMMER OF
HATE
COCKTAILS
WITH DARYL
AND
SUSI
HOME
BASS
8
9
10
11
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
1
2
3
4
THE
SHOW
LlEFF&DAVEl
(HEATHERS
SHOW
GROOVE
JUMPING/
WOZZLE
SOMETHING
Gregxoxx.
I BEE NORMAL 10:00-11 MAM Pioneers of Redo
Sound advocating he mentaly^iysically chal-
NARDWUAR THE HUMAN SERVIETTE PRESENTS.. 3:3O-4:O0PM Cleo! Cleo! dec!
THE QTR DMNER REPORT S:00-5:20PM Wih
The Vdce of Reason," on weekly look back al
the week in he news, tongues firmfy in cheek.
COCKTAILS WITH DARYL AND SUSI 6:00-9: OOPV
Underground sound system-style mastemix ra-
do.
FOR THE RECORD 6:30-6:45PM Excerpts kom
Dave Emory's flado Fmt Amtrk* Series.
HOMEBASS 9MPM-12: 30AM The nigral he
mixed dance program h Vancouver. Hosted by
DJ Noah, hemain focus of lie show is techno, but
also incWes some kance, add, kiwi, etc. ..Guest
DJs, interviews, rekospedves, giveaways, and
more are part of he lavor of homebass.
LIMP SMK 12:30AM-Morr.ng: Join al of your Limp
Sir* pals as hey share their social problems with
you. Hosted by the G42 players
The Fritter*, Pa( Show • Formerly the 'Fire
Pipe" anoVor 'The Postman Pat Show" and/or
■PafsParty'andor'UmpSink". Fritter and Pal try
The focfrKfflare Show -
Ingrediente:
1 pinch ol honesty
2 cups of willingness
SATURDAYS
THE SATURDAY EDGE 8:00AM-12:00PM Now in
its 8th year on he ar, The Edge on Fok features
music you wont hear anywhere else: new releases in he realm of Celtic, Folk and Roots;
studo guests: British comedy sketches; and British soccer results al 11:30 AM. 8-9 AM: African/
World roots. 9-12 noon: Celic music and feature
POWERCHORD 12:1W:00PM Vancouver's oriy
true metal show; local demo tapes, imports and
other rarities. Gerald Rattehead and Metal Ron
do he damage.
THE AFRICAN SHOW 3:004:00PM Ifs a music
thing from all "Akica" Its an awareness ling of
self and ohers. Ifs an African house party.
Stories, music, dance fun. Welcome! Your hosts:
Umerah and MaweJe
THE SHOW 6«H:00PM Strictly Up Hop -
Strictly Undergound - Stidy Vynal
WihyourhoslsCragG.MeCheckaiJSwiigonthe
1&2S.
HEATHER'S SHOW 9:00-10:00PM Dedcatated to
the gay. lesbian, bisexual, and transsexual
commuriies of Vancouver and listened to by
everyone. Lois of human interest lealures,
background on current issues and great music
kom musicians of al sexual preferences and
gender identities . T re show has everything except
a name. Any suggestions?
GROOVE JUMPING 10:00PM-1:00AM Saturdays
Terry, Woule. Jeff, Warren. Who wil it be? Who
knows! Who cares! ft rocks! Golgure
SOMETHING 1:00-4:00AM Completely pokicalty
correct content with the fresh and del new releases retrial he Art School stodenls thai have
the bafts to just get up there and do il Reinventing
the meaning of religion and the re-inlegraf on of
Jesus Christ our Lord into todays youh cultie. A
woman's voice late al night, oozing pure
tsuaity til you rol over and go to
WHOM   &   HOW
ARTS JOHN SEMINOFF
BOARD CHAIR HARRY HERTSCHEG
CURRENT AFFAIRS ANGUS WILSON
DEMOS/CASSETTES DALE SAWYER
ENGINEER RICHARD ANDERSON
ENTERTAINMENT CHRIS  CHEN
VINCE YEH
NICK LEVENS
JUSTIN LEIGH
DRU PAVLOV
HELEN G.
ADAM SLOAN
CATHY BAOZO
BRIAN WEISER
STATION MANAGER LINDA SCHOLTEN
VICE PRESIDENT JEREMY PRICE
VOLUNTEER COORDINATOR        JOHN HUSKN
BUSINESS UNE 604/822-3017
DJ UNE 604/822-2487 (UBC-CiTR)
NEWS UNE 604/822-5334 (822-JEDI)
FAX UNE 604/822-9364
ENVOY ID CITR.FM
MOBILE  SOUND
PRESIDENT
PRODUCTION
PROGRAMMING
PROMOTIONS
SPORTS rose chronicles
STUHEKola-y jm<a)r<clnL 27 • all   acjes  comKcerlt
\ANCOUVER   EAST   CULTURAL   CENTRE 1869 W 4th Ave.
Vancouver. BC
V6J 1 M4
CANADA
tel 604.738.3232
STORE HOURS
MontoWed 10:30-7:00
Thurs and Fri 10:30-9:00
Sat 9:30-6:30
Sun 12:00-6:00
This
Girth's
pecials
at Zulu
he store)
Giant Sand
® Purge and Slouch
Every year for more than 10
years, Howe Gelb and the
revolving door membership that
is Giant Sand, have been
releasing great album after great
album to consistent critical
acclaim. The problem is, most
people haven't caught on. But
with last year's Centre of the
Universe and the new Purge and
Slouch everything is starting to
change. Recorded at the end of
last summer Purge and Slouch is
77 minutes of the best ecclectic,
rambling, soothing music
around. Part country, rock, folk,
a little jazz and just plain
weirdness, it changes moods
with each song.
14.98 O     9.98 m IMPORT
Various
« Abridged Perversion
Upland California's Shrimper
Records offers an introduction
to the "canon of low-fidelity
music in cd, digital clarity.
Provided is a diverse and
compelling mix of many sounds
and styles. Featuring Lou
Barlow's Sentridoh, Biigskull,
wckrspgt, and the Shrimper
Records flagship band,
Refrigerator. Introduce yourself
to Shrimper, let Shrimper
introduce themselves to you.
11.98 O IMPORT
Portastatic
•  Naked Pilseners
Three low-fi, 4-track, pop songs
by the multitalented Mac from
Superchunk.   An  easy  and
entertaining Saturday afternoon
listen. It made me smile, dig it.
7.98 OEP IMPORT
Yo La Tengo
® From a Motel 6
What can be said about Yo La
Tengo that hasn't already been
said? They are one of America's
most beautifully perfect bands.
This new EP contains one song
from their latest shiner Painful
and offers a couple of new ones
as well. Yo La Tengo translates
from Spanish as "I have it" —
and you know, this band really
does.
7.98 OEP
IMPORT
Slowdive
• Souvlaki
Slowdive are dreamy, starry-
eyed, visionary, fantastic, fancy,
fairy-like, Utopian, quixotic,
ideal, unreal, in the clouds, extravagant, illusory, phantasmic,
mythical, swirly, whirly, twisty,
airy, delicate, light, fragile,
heavenly, celestial, empireal,
angelic, perpetual, continual,
ageless, exciting, excellent,
divine, elite, prime, grand,
dandy, graceful, elegant guitar
pop. And now they're also
available domestically with four
extra tracks not available on the
previously released UK version!
16.98 0     10.98 53
Vic Chesnutt
•  Drunk
From New Directions paperbacks
to Demerol and alcohol, Vic
continues to write songs that
make their way into the front
room of one's desolate notions.
The story behind Vic's third
album is that he and his pals
went down to a family farm in
South Georgia, recorded a little
and had a party for three days.
The story's simple — listen to
the record.
14.98 O     9.98H IMPORT
Pavement
• Crooked Rain,
Crooked Rain
Shy in the light of popular
attention and high expectation,
the crowned joker/princes of
alternative rock and roll shrug
their shoulders, and take to their
instruments again to produce
another document of youth
culture and disenchantment.
They skirt around the weighty
emblem of so called "pop
genius", managing to land firmly
on their backs in the crooked rain
of their own construction.
Mysterious, thoughtful,
progressive, always entertaining.
14.98 O    9.98 IH        IMPORT
jawbox
® For Your Own
Special Sweatheart
Reborn major label babes ease
into the mainstream with a tight
and dynamic tull-on rock album.
Great production and interesting
songs make this a worthy listen,
still with that famous Dischord
Records sound.
16.98 0     10.98W      IMPORT
Eugenius
« Mary Queen of Scots
Another happy/sad pop album
by Kurt Cobain's favorite scots.
Twelve foot-tappingly swell
songs in tribute to one of their
own — Mary. Check it out.
16.98 O     10.98M      IMPORT
All special prices in effect for the
month of March 1994.
Magazines? Box Sets? Odds and
Sods? We got 'em!
O = cd       HI = cassette
New this month from Zulu Records (the label)
BH
Daytona
® Chicane
Perfume Tree
®   The Suns Running Out
Record Release Events
Perfume Tree
Thursday March 24
Graceland, 1250 Richards St
Daytona
TBA